YOU READY?
YEAH, OK, WELCOME TO THE
THURSDAY JULY 13TH.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
>> THE MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON AND ELECTRONIC LEAVESDEN
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD
LIKE TO COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR
OTHER MATTERS THEY DO SO IN
PERSON OR VIRTUALLY TO SPEAK
DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITY PLEASE CALL
TO 063 THREE SEVEN NINE SEVEN
TWO THREE OR TOLL FREE EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN INTERMEETING
I.D. NINE SIX FIVE THREE SIX
SIX NINE NINE SEVEN
SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLIC AGENDA
IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES SECTION
OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND ON THE
BROADCAST OF THIS MEETING ON
CTM AND CAN BE FOUND ON XFINITY
CHANNEL 16 AT&T CHANNEL NINETY
NINE AND STREAMING ONLINE ON
YOUTUBE OR AT EIGHT GOV DOT ORG
SLASH WATCH CTY AND WE INTEND
TO CONDUCT THIS HYBRID MEETING
SIMILARLY TO AN IN-PERSON
MEETING.
HOWEVER PLEASE BE PATIENT IF
THERE ARE TECHNICAL ISSUES.
>> MISS THATCHER WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
YES COMMISSIONER ROSS MR.
ROCKLIN HERE MR. P.A.
COMMISSIONER FORTNER
COMMISSIONER CALDERON PRESENT
YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK MISS THATCHER.
AND SINCE WE DO HAVE A NEW
COMMISSIONER STARTING THIS
MEETING, I WOULD LIKE TO
INTRODUCE BEN CALDERON AND
PLEASE IF YOU COULD INTRODUCE
YOURSELF AND SAY A FEW WORDS,
LET US KNOW WHO YOU ARE AND WHY
YOU'RE HERE.
>> FIRST OFF, HAVE TO BE HERE
THEN ON MY KNEE I JUST RECENTLY
GRADUATED FROM COMING COLLEGE
THE MASTER'S ARCHITECTURE EVER
SINCE I WAS UNDERGRAD I'VE
ALWAYS HAD AN INTEREST IN ART
HISTORY SO I'M HAPPY TO LEARN
HAPPY TO BE PARTICIPATING.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND WELCOME
.
THANKS BEN.
OK, WE WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM C
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
>> ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS, CHANGES TO THE
AGENDA THIS EVENING SEEING NONE
AND WITHOUT OBJECTION THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED AS PRESENTED
NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
>> THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON OTHER PRESERVATION
MATTERS, PLEASE CALL IN USING
THE INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON
THE MEETING AGENDA AND THE
VIDEO FEED CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND ONE BY ONE USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER TO ELECTRONICALLY RAISE
YOUR HAND TO INDICATE YOUR
DESIRE TO SPEAK PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ON YOUR YOU WILL HEAR
AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO
SPEAK.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS ANYONE HERE FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT DOES NOT LOOK LIKE IT.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ON THE PHONE
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN THREE
YEARS WE HAVE NO ONE WAITING IN
ZOOM.
NO ONE AT ALL?
NO.
I'LL LET YOU KNOW IF ANYONE
SHOWS UP BUT THAT'S THAT'S A
MILESTONE EVENT.
MARK IT DOWN.
OK, I MIGHT HAVE TO CHANGE OUR
ANYWAY OK LET'S JUST MOVE ON TO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS ITEM IX AND
THERE IS UNFINISHED BUSINESS SO
WE'LL MOVE RIGHT ON TO F
HEARINGS AND WE'LL START WITH F
ONE TWO FIFTEEN TO SEVENTEEN S
MAIN MISS THATCHER WILL YOU
PLEASE GIVE THE STAFF REPORT.
>> THANK GETS THE TWO BIG BRICK
BUILDING WITH THE CENTER STARE
AT TWO FIFTEEN AND TWO
SEVENTEEN S MAIN STREET WAS
CONSTRUCTED AN EIGHTEEN SIXTY
SIX ITS COMMERCIAL ITALIANATE
IN STYLE WITH THREE FLOORS
ARCHTOP WINDOWS BROWN AND
SEGMENTED ARCHES AND STONE TRIM
THE BUILDING'S CORNICE IS
CURRENTLY MISSING.
THE ORIGINAL OCCUPANT WAS
OF FIFTEEN WAS RICHARDS AND
FORBES MILLENARY AND TO
SEVENTEEN WAS OCCUPIED BY
CHARLES FONTHILL DRY GOODS IN
TWENTY NINETEEN A WORKING
SESSION WAS HELD TO DISCUSS THE
ADDITION OF THREE STORIES ON
TOP OF THIS THREE STORY
BUILDING AND AT THE JUNE EIGHT
TWENTY TWENTY THREE HGC MEETING
THE APPLICATION WAS POSTPONED
BECAUSE NEW DRAWINGS WERE
SUBMITTED THE DAY OF THE
MEETING AND THAT GETS US TO
TODAY.
IT'S ON THE EAST SIDE OF SOUTH
MAIN STREET BETWEEN EAST
WASHINGTON AND EAST LIBERTY AND
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO DEMOLISH ALL BUT
THE FRONT FACADE INSIDE WALLS
OF THE EXISTING THREE STOREY
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCT A NEW
FIVE STOREY BUILDING WITHIN IT.
REPLACE THE TWO STOREFRONTS,
STOREFRONTS, SYSTEMS AND
REPLACE THE SECOND AND THIRD
FLOOR WINDOWS ON THE FRONT
FACADE WITH REPLICA WINDOWS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
LET ME TAKE YOU THROUGH THE
PHOTOGRAPHS FIRST.
THESE ARE A COMBINATION OF ALL
THIS.
THIS IS AN OLDER PHOTO
OBVIOUSLY BECAUSE THE
STOREFRONTS AREN'T BOARDED UP
AS THEY ARE CURRENTLY.
BUT THESE ARE A COMBINATION
OF PHOTOS FROM THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE LAST MONTH AND THIS
MONTH WE SWUNG BY TO SO THAT
MORE COMMISSIONERS COULD GET A
LOOK.
THIS IS LOOKING UPSTAIRS AT
217.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE ARE NICE
ARCHED WINDOWS.
THEY STILL HAVE THE SASHES FOR
THE THIRD FLOOR WINDOWS BUT
THEY WERE HEAVILY DAMAGED IN A
FIRE THE SECOND FOUR WINDOWS
HAVE BEEN MODIFIED AND REPLACED
WITH WINDOWS OF DIFFERENT
PROPORTIONS.
THIS IS LOOKING NORTH TOWARD
THE FIRST NATIONAL BUILDING THE
TALL BUILDING ON THE CORNER
HERE WE'RE LOOKING SOUTH TOWARD
LIBERTY STREET, THE REAR OF THE
BUILDING.
THIS IS THE TWO FIFTEEN SIDE IN
BOTH OF THESE PHOTOS YOU CAN
SEE IT HAS A NUMBER OF ORIGINAL
OPENINGS.
SOME OF THEM HAVE BEEN BLOCKED
IN.
SOME OF THEM HAVE BEEN
CONVERTED TO DOORS.
NOT SURE WHAT'S GOING ON BEHIND
THE PLYWOOD HERE AND TO 17 HAS
ONE STOREY ADDITION BEHIND
LOOKS LIKE TWO STORIES HERE BUT
HERE'S A BETTER SHOT STANDING A
LITTLE FURTHER BACK SHOWING YOU
THE WHOLE BUILDING I THROUGH
THE SANBORN'S IN HERE BECAUSE
THERE WERE QUESTIONS FROM
COMMISSIONERS ABOUT WHETHER THE
ONE STORY WING WAS FROM THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE AND YOU
CAN SEE ON THE NINETEEN TWENTY
FIVE SANDBORN MAP ON THE BOTTOM
RIGHT THAT THIS IS THE BUILDING
AND IT'S JUST A THREE STOREY
BUILDING THAT'S WHAT THIS THREE
MEANS AND IT HAD A LITTLE ONE
STOREY ENCLOSED ENTRYWAY AND
THE BACK AND THEN BY NINETEEN
THIRTY ONE THIS ONE STOREY WING
OFF THE BACK HAD BEEN
CONSTRUCTED AND THE LITTLE ROOM
ENCLOSURE HAD BEEN SLID A
LITTLE BIT TO THE NORTH TO ONLY
SERVE TO FIFTEEN.
SO WHAT YOU SEE THERE TODAY
MATCHES THE FOOTPRINT OF WHAT
WAS THERE IN NINETEEN THIRTY
ONE NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN THERE
WAS ABOUT PERCENT OF THIS
LITTLE ENCLOSED ROOM ON THE
BACK WAS GONE BUT THAT WAS THE
ONLY CHANGE WE SAW THIS WINDOW
SASH AND THERE ARE PHOTOS
OF THE OTHER WINDOWS SASHES AS
I MENTIONED THEY WERE BURNED IN
A FIRE DAMAGED ON FIRE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THEY HAD A
LITTLE CENTER GOING ACROSS THE
MIDDLE HERE.
THIS MUST HAVE BEEN A SECOND
STORY I'M SORRY A SECOND FLOOR
WINDOW SINCE THE THE ONES UP
TOP WERE STOPPED AND A FEW
PHOTOS OF DIFFERENT
PERSPECTIVES FROM ALONG MAIN
STREET YOU CAN SEE THE FIRST
NATIONAL BUILDING I'M STANDING
AT THE CORNER OF HURON AND
SOUTH MAIN AND IT'S THE GRAY
BUILDING HERE IN THE CENTER.
JUST TO GIVE YOU SOME IDEA
OF HOW MUCH YOU CAN SEE OR
CANNOT SEE ON TOP OF THE
BUILDINGS IT'S A ROOFTOP
EDITION IS PROPOSED NOW WE'RE
GETTING A LITTLE BIT CLOSER
REALLY SINCE THE WHOLE BLOCK IS
THREE STOREY BUILDINGS YOU CAN
REALLY SEE PRETTY CLEARLY
WHAT'S GOING ON.
THIS BUILDING TO THE NORTH HAS
A SMALL ONE STOREY EDITION BUT
IT IS SET BACK SO YOU CAN'T SEE
IT FROM THE STREET.
IT'S A STAIR ENCLOSURE WITH
JUST A SINGLE ROOM.
IT'S NOT LIKE A WHOLE FLOOR OR
ANYTHING HERE IS FROM ALMOST
DIRECTLY ACROSS THE STREET.
>> WE HAVE SOME PERSPECTIVE
DRAWINGS FROM OVER HERE AND NOW
WE'RE MOVING FURTHER SOUTH.
THIS IS AT THE CORNER
OF LIBERTY.
I GUESS IT'S NOT QUITE AT THE
CORNER BECAUSE THERE'S ONE MORE
STOREFRONT ON THIS BUILDING ON
THE RIGHT.
OK, THERE IT IS AND IT'S A
GREAT BUILDING HERE IN THE
CENTER THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
SO SO A LITTLE BIT OF TRACTION
IN THE WAY FROM THIS
PERSPECTIVE.
ALL RIGHT.
THE EXISTING CONDITIONS THIS IS
THE CURRENT FRONT FACADE.
THE STOREFRONTS ARE TO BE
REMOVED AND THE FRONT FACADE
AND THE TWO WALLS ARE PROPOSED
TO REMAIN ON THE BACK.
>> THE ENTIRE WALL WOULD BE
REMOVED.
THE INTERIOR ELEVATION AND THE
ONE STOREY WING AND THE THE TWO
SIDE WALLS WOULD REMAIN S
ELEVATION NORTH ELEVATION
FIRST
FLOOR DRAWINGS, THE FLOOR AND
WALLS ARE TO BE REMOVED BUT THE
MASONRY WALLS REMAIN ON THESE
THREE SIDES AND SECOND FLOORS
IN HERE TO I'M NOT SURE THAT
IT'S SHOWING IT MUCH THAT'S
DIFFERENT THE THIRD FLOOR I'M
JUST NOT SURE HOW HOW TALL THAT
THAT ONE STARTED WITH IN THE
BACK AS IF IT'S REALLY ONE
STORY OR IF IT'S REALLY TWO
STORIES OR OR SOMETHING
DIFFERENT INSIDE IT DOESN'T
LOOK LIKE CAN GET INTO THERE
FROM HERE BUT NOT SUPER
IMPORTANT BUT HERE'S THE THIRD
FLOOR AND THE ROOF AND THE ROOF
WOULD BE REMOVED AND THOSE
THREE WALLS AGAIN WOULD REMAIN
THERE ARE THERE ARE PLANS THAT
YOU SAW IN YOUR PACKETS FOR
BRACING FROM THE INTERIOR
BECAUSE THEY WANT TO REMOVE ALL
THE FLOORS THAT ARE CURRENTLY
BRACING THE BUILDING WHICH
WOULD REQUIRE SOME OTHER FORM.
THERE'S A CONSTRUCTION
FEASIBILITY PLAN PROVIDED YOU
CAN SEE THE LOCATION OF A
FUTURE CRANE AND MORE
CONSTRUCTION FEASIBILITY AND AN
ILLUSTRATION OF MOVING A STEEL
BEAM OVER THE TOP OF THE
BUILDING FROM THE BACK ALLEY
AND WHAT THAT RADIUS WOULD LOOK
LIKE
.
THERE WERE SOME PHOTOS PROVIDED
OF THE FIRE DAMAGE THESE TWO
ARE OF THE THIRD FLOOR ROOF AND
THIS IS THE EAST WALL.
I BELIEVE THAT THERE'S A LETTER
FROM A STRUCTURAL ENGINEER
ABOUT THIS FISSURE OR PROBLEM
IN THE WALL THAT YOU CAN LOOK
UP YOU CAN SEE A LOT
OF CHARRING FROM THAT FIRE THAT
WAS ON THE THIRD FLOOR QUITE A
NUMBER OF YEARS AGO.
HERE ARE THE SURING SKETCHES,
CONCEPTUAL IMAGES.
THIS WOULD BE THE FRONT FACADE
KEPT IN PLACE WITH TWO NEW
STOREFRONTS AND THE NEW FOURTH
AND FIFTH FLOORS.
>> THERE'S A FOURTH FLOOR UNDER
HERE WITH WINDOWS BUT FROM THIS
PERSPECTIVE YOU DON'T SEE IT
THE WINDOWS BEHIND THE PARAPET
HERE'S ANOTHER ANGLE FROM MAIN
STREET THE ALLEY PERSPECTIVE AS
YOU CAN SEE, THIS IS THE
EXISTING WALL AND EVERYTHING
ELSE BACK HERE IS NEW AND
TALLER
.
>> THE PROPOSED FIRST FLOOR
PLAN THIS ONE CALLS OUT WELL
THE INSETS FOR THE NEW
STOREFRONTS.
THERE'S A CELLAR DOOR HERE.
I BELIEVE THAT SENATOR IS JUST
GOING TO BE FIXED SHOT NOT AN
ACTUAL DOOR.
BUT EITHER WAY AS LONG AS IT
REGISTERS AS A DOOR OR IT'S A
REAL DOOR EITHER WAY FINE.
THIS IS THE FIFTH FLOOR I
SKIPPED OVER.
HE'S A LITTLE BIT HERE'S THE
FRONT OF THE BUILDING AND THIS
WILL BE CLEARER IN A SECOND BUT
THERE'S AN EIGHT FOOT SET BACK
TO THE FOURTH FLOOR AND THEN
THERE'S ANOTHER FIVE FOOT STEP
BACK TO THE FIFTH FLOOR AND
THAT'S WHY THIS WALL IS 13 FEET
FROM THE FRONT OF THE BUILDING.
THAT'LL MAKE MORE SENSE.
THE SECOND ROOF PLAN CONDENSERS
MANY SPLIT'S PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
>> HERE'S THE PARAPET SCREEN
THAT'S SLOPED TO TRY TO REDUCE
THE THE THE THE HEIGHT OF THE
BUILDING, THE APPEARANCE OF THE
HEIGHT WHICH YOU'LL SEE BETTER
IN A SECOND.
THERE IS A WALL OFFSET DETAIL
THAT THE CURRENT WALL IS
SLIGHTLY OVER A PROPERTY LINE
AND IT WILL STAY THERE.
THE BRICK WALL BUT THE NEW WORK
CAN'T BE OVER THE PROPERTY LINE
SO THERE WILL BE A LITTLE JOG.
THE ARCHITECTS AMONG US CAN
PROBABLY TALK MORE
INTELLIGENTLY ABOUT THAT BUT
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT CAME UP
THAT WE WANTED TO BE SURE YOU
ARE AWARE OF .
SO HERE IS THE PROPOSED FRONT
ELEVATION.
WE'VE GOT NEW STOREFRONTS,
WE'VE GOT NEW WINDOWS, THE COOL
ARCHITECT ONES ON THE THIRD
FLOOR, THE THE REGULAR ONES
THAT JUST FIT IN THE SPACE ON
THE SECOND FLOOR.
THEN WE HAVE THE FOURTH AND
FIFTH FLOORS ON TOP AND THIS IS
THE SLANTED PARAPET SLANTED TO
TRY TO LOWER MINIMIZE THE
APPEARANCE OF THAT PARAPET.
IT LOOKS LIKE THIS THIS IS ALL
BRICK WITH A GLASS GUARDRAIL IN
FRONT OF THE FIFTH FLOOR AND
SLIDERS OR FRENCH DOORS
PROBABLY SLIDERS AND ONE
OF OPEN WINDOWS FLANKING THEM.
HERE'S THE REAR ELEVATION.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE ARE
BALCONIES ON THE SECOND THROUGH
FIFTH FLOORS
.
>> THERE'S THE NORTH ELEVATION.
YOU CAN SEE THE THE THE THE THE
CURRENT BUILDING THE EXTENT
OF THE CURRENT BUILDING AND
THEN THE NEW FOURTH AND FIFTH
FLOORS ADDED ON AND THE SAME
FOOTPRINT BUT INCREASED HEIGHT
OF THAT REAR WING FROM THE
OTHER SIDE FROM THE SOUTH
ELEVATION YOU CAN SEE THE
BUILDING THIS IS THE LONG WALL
AND YOU CAN SEE HOW THE
ADDITION AFFECTS THE TOP
OF THIS BUILDING AND THAT'S A
GOOD LOOK AT THE THE SET BACKS
EIGHT FEET AND THEN ANOTHER
FIVE FEET TO THIS WALL AND THE
SLOPED PARAPET THE STOREFRONTS
ARE PROPOSED TO BE AN ALUMINUM
STORE FRONT SYSTEM BUT WITH
WOODEN DETAIL APPLIED VERTICAL
DETAIL ON THE ON THE FRONT HERE
THERE ARE THESE WOOD PANELED
COLUMNS ON EITHER SIDE AND
SINCE THIS IS INSET THREE FEET
TO THE DOOR AND THE WINDOWS
THAT THERE'S ANOTHER THERE'S
ANOTHER PANEL YOU CAN SEE TWO
OF THEM ON THE INTERIOR OF THAT
WALL THERE ARE CURRENTLY
WRAPPED UP IN IN SOME
ARTIFICIAL MATERIAL METAL OR
SOMETHING ELSE THESE THESE
STACKED STONE COLUMNS FLANKING
THE DOOR AND ON THE RIGHT SIDE
OF THE TELEVISION THESE THESE
FOUR COLUMNS I THINK WILL ONCE
THEY'RE EXPOSED WOULD ADD
GREATLY TO THE CHARACTER
OF THESE STORE FRONTS.
THIS IS NOT A RECREATION OF ANY
OF THE HISTORIC STOREFRONTS.
THERE HAVE BEEN A NUMBER
OF THEM OVER THE YEARS BUT I DO
BELIEVE IT'S COMPATIBLE WITH
THE BUILDING TENANTS.
I'M IN A BAND WITH A CORNICE
WITH BRACKETS AGAIN IT'S NOT A
HISTORIC DETAIL BUT IT'S IT'S
NOT SOMETHING THAT I THINK
WOULD BE CONFUSED FOR HISTORIC.
IT'S MERELY COMPATIBLE AND
THERE PROBABLY WAS A CORNISH
LITTLE STOREFRONT CORNICE THERE
AT SOMETIME MAIN STREET
ELEVATION AND LARGE OK, HERE'S
THAT INSET.
THIS IS THE CENTER DOOR AND
WE'VE GOT THE TWO INSETS WITH A
TILED FLOOR AND THERE'S ALSO
TILED KICKED LIKE THAT.
I DIDN'T MENTION GOING ACROSS
HERE AND HERE TILED THIS
EXTENDED TO THE FLOOR
.
>> HERE'S AN ILLUSTRATION
OF THE STOREFRONTS WHICH I
THINK IS VERY HELPFUL.
>> YOU CAN SEE THOSE WOOD
PANELED COLUMNS FLANKING AND
THERE'S ANOTHER WOOD PANEL IN
HERE IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S AN
INTERESTING IDEA TO TO RUN A
VERTICAL WOOD STRIP JUST TO
SORT OF SOFTEN THE THE VIEW
OF THE OF THE ALUMINUM, WHICH
IS A VERY MODERN LOOKING
MATERIAL OBVIOUSLY.
SO IT'S A SORT OF A CROSSOVER
BETWEEN A MODERN AND A
TRADITIONAL STORE FRONT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
HERE IS THE THE SIGHTLINES THE
VISIBILITY FROM THE STREET.
IF YOU WERE STANDING ON THE
SAME EAST SIDE OF MAIN STREET,
YOU COULD NOT YOU JUST YOU
COULDN'T SEE PROBABLY ANY
OF THIS WITHOUT STEPPING A
COUPLE OF FEET BACKWARDS INTO
THE STREET.
SO THAT GUY'S IN THE CLEAR GO
ACROSS THE STREET AND PRETTY
MUCH ANYWHERE ON THE SIDEWALK
YOU'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO SEE
THE ADDITION AND THAT'S THE
REASON THAT I INCLUDED THOSE
OTHER PHOTOGRAPHS BECAUSE THERE
ARE THERE THERE ARE THERE ARE
MANY OTHER PLACES BESIDES JUST
ACROSS THE STREET WHERE THE
ADDITION IS GOING TO BE VISIBLE
BECAUSE OF THE DISTANCE THAT
IT'S SET BACK.
>> THERE'S A SECTION OF THE
STORE FRONT AND YOU CAN SEE THE
EIGHT FOOT INSET FROM THE
EXISTING HISTORIC PARAPET AND
THEN ANOTHER FIVE FOOT BACK TO
THE FIFTH FLOOR THERE ARE
BALCONY TABLES AND STOREFRONTS,
SYSTEM DETAILS PROVIDED IN THE
PACKET.
>> ALL RIGHT.
LET ME GO THROUGH THE STANDARDS
AND GUIDELINES I'M GOING TO
READ THEM ALL TO YOU.
NO ONE SAYS THAT AND THESE ARE
THESE ARE NOT ALL THE STANDARDS
AND GUIDELINES.
THERE ARE TEN OF THEM.
BUT THESE ARE THE ONES THAT
BEST APPLY TO THIS PROJECT.
NO ONE SAYS A PROPERTY WILL BE
USED AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY OR
GIVE IT A NEW USE THAT REQUIRES
MINIMAL CHANGE TO ITS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS,
FEATURES, SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
>> NO TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURES, SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS THAT CHARACTERIZE
A PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURES, FINISHES
AND CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED.
NO SIX HAS DETERIORATED.
HISTORIC FEATURES WILL BE
REPAIRED RATHER THAN REPLACED
OR THE SEVERITY
OF DETERIORATION REQUIRES
REPLACEMENT OF A DISTINCTIVE
FEATURE.
THE NEW FEATURE WILL MATCH THE
OLD INDESIGN COLOR TEXTURE AND
WHERE POSSIBLE MATERIALS
REPLACEMENT OF MISSING FEATURES
WILL BE SUBSTANTIATED BY
DOCUMENTARY AND PHYSICAL
EVIDENCE.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY STORING MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MACING SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
NO TENSAS NEW ADDITIONS AND
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR'S
GUIDELINES FOR ALTERATIONS
AUDITIONS FOR THE NEW USE TO
RECOMMEND IT TO DESIGN
ADDITIONS TO ROOFS SUCH AS
RESIDENTIAL OFFICE OR STORAGE
SPACES, ELEVATOR HOUSINGS DECKS
AND TERRACES OR DORMERS
OF SKYLIGHTS WHEN REQUIRED BY
THE NEW USE THAT THEY ARE
INCONSPICUOUS FROM THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY AND DO NOT DAMAGE
OR OBSCURE CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES FOR ADDITIONS THEY
RECOMMEND CONSIDERING THE
ATTACHED EXTERIOR ADDITIONS
BOTH IN TERMS OF THE NEW USE
AND THE APPEARANCE OF OTHER
BUILDINGS IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD.
DESIGN FOR THE NEW WORK MAY BE
CONTEMPORARY OR MAY REFERENCE
DESIGN MOTIFS FROM THE HISTORIC
BUILDING IN EITHER CASE IT
SHOULD ALWAYS BE CLEARLY
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE
HISTORIC BUILDING AND BE
COMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF MASS
MATERIALS RELATIONSHIP OF TO
DIVIDES AND COLOR
ALSO FROM THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR'S
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS ITS
RECOMMENDED DESIGN ADDITIONAL
STORIES WHEN REQUIRED FOR THE
NEW USE THAT ARE SET BACK FROM
THE WALL PLAIN AND ARE AS
INCONSPICUOUS AS POSSIBLE WHEN
VIEWED FROM THE STREET.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN
A NEW ADDITIONS THAT ITS SIZE
AND SCALE IN RELATION TO THE
HISTORIC BUILDING ARE OUT
OF PROPORTION, THUS DIMINISHING
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER FOR
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING IT'S RECOMMENDED DESIGN
AND CONSTRUCT NEW ADDITIONS TO
HISTORIC BUILDINGS WHEN
REQUIRED BY THE NEW USE.
YOUR WORK SHALL BE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE SETTING IN TERMS
OF SIZE, SCALE DESIGN, MATERIAL
COLOR AND TEXTURE NOT
RECOMMENDED IS INTRODUCING NEW
CONSTRUCTION TO HISTORIC
DISTRICTS THAT IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN
THE SETTING FROM THE GUIDELINES
FOR STOREFRONTS TO RECOMMEND IT
TO DESIGN AND CONSTRUCT A NEW
STOREFRONT WHEN THE HISTORIC
STOREFRONT IS COMPLETELY
MISSING.
MAYBE AN ACCURATE RESTORATION
USING HISTORICAL PICTORIAL
PHYSICAL DOCUMENTATION OR MAYBE
A NEW DESIGN THAT IS COMPATIBLE
WITH THE SIZE SCALE MATERIAL
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING.
NEW DESIGN SHOULD BE FLUSH WITH
THE FACADE TO BE KEPT AS SIMPLE
AS POSSIBLE FROM THE GUIDELINES
FOR WINDOWS IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
REPLACE AN ENTIRE WINDOW THAT
IT'S TO DETERIORATE THAT IS TOO
DETERIORATED TO REPAIR USING
THE SAME SACHSEN CONFIGURATION
AND OTHER DESIGN DETAILS IF
USING THE SAME KIND OF MATERIAL
IS NOT TECHNICALLY OR
ECONOMICALLY FEASIBLE AND
REPLACING WINDOWS DETERIORATED
BEYOND REPAIR THEN A COMPATIBLE
SUBSTITUTE MATERIAL MAY BE
CONSIDERED NOT RECOMMENDED FOR
WINDOWS IS REMOVING OR
RADICALLY CHANGING WINDOWS
WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
THE OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING SO THAT AS A
RESULT THE CHARACTER IS
DIMINISHED FROM THE GUIDELINES
FOR BUILDING SITE NOT
RECOMMENDED INTRODUCING NEW
CONSTRUCTION INTO THE BUILDING
SITE WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF SIZE,
SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS, COLOR
AND TEXTURE OR WHICH DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS ON THE
SITE FOR MASONRY IT IS NOT
RECOMMENDED TO REMOVE OR
RADICALLY CHANGE MASONRY
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER BUILDING SO THAT AS A
RESULT THE CHARACTER IS
DIMINISHED ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED
AS REPLACING OR REBUILDING A
MAJOR PORTION OF EXTERIOR
MASONRY WALLS.
IT COULD BE REPAIRED SO THAT AS
A RESULT THE BUILDING IS NO
LONGER HISTORIC AND IS
ESSENTIALLY NEW CONSTRUCTION
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR SETTING
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION THAT
IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR
THAT DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN SETTING.
NOW WE MOVE ON TO THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
IN HISTORIC COMMERCIAL SETTINGS
APPROPRIATE IS BUILDING MACING
SHOULD FIT WITH EXISTING
HISTORIC PATTERNS.
ALSO APPROPRIATE BUILDINGS
SHOULD NOT BE IMMENSE IN SCALE
OR GREATLY CONTRAST WITH THE
EXISTING SCALE ON THE BLOCK OR
IN THE SURROUNDING HISTORIC
DISTRICT FROM THE NATIONAL PARK
SERVICE 314 NEW EXTERIOR
ADDITIONS, HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
>> THEY SAY THAT A NEW ADDITION
SHOULD PRESERVE SIGNIFICANT
HISTORIC MATERIALS, FEATURES
AND FORM BE COMPATIBLE AND BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE
HISTORIC BUILDING.
SO I'M GOING TO LAUNCH INTO
SOME OF MY STAFF NOTES NOW
STAFF NOTES THAT THIS WORK
WOULD DEMOLISH ALL OF THE
BUILDINGS HISTORIC MATERIALS
EXCEPT THREE EXTERIOR WALLS AND
FURTHER THE ADDITIONAL TWO
STORIES ARE NOT COMPATIBLE
BECAUSE THEY'RE HIGHLY VISIBLE
AND CHANGE THE CHARACTER OF THE
THREE STOREY BUILDING IN THE
CENTER OF A ROW OF THREE STOREY
BUILDINGS.
MORE FROM THE NATIONAL PARK
SERVICE PRESERVATION 314 NEW
EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC
BUILDINGS PAGE TWELVE SAYS THAT
GENERALLY A ROOFTOP EDITION
SHOULD NOT BE MORE THAN ONE
STORY IN HEIGHT TO MINIMIZE ITS
VISIBILITY AND ITS IMPACT ON
THE PROPORTION AND PROFILE
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING.
A ROOFTOP EDITION SHOULD ALMOST
ALWAYS BE SET BACK AT LEAST ONE
FULL DAY FROM THE PRIMARY
ELEVATION OF THE BUILDING AS
WELL AS FROM THE OTHER
ELEVATIONS.
>> IF THE BUILDING IS
FREESTANDING OR HIGHLY VISIBLE
GOES ON TO SAY ON PAGE 12 THAT
CONSTRUCTING ANOTHER FLOOR ON
TOP OF A SMALL ONE, TWO OR
THREE STOREY BUILDING IS SELDOM
APPROPRIATE FOR BUILDINGS
OF THIS SIZE AS IT WOULD
MEASURABLY ALTER THE BUILDING'S
PROPORTIONS AND PROFILE AND
NEGATIVELY IMPACT ITS HISTORIC
CHARACTER.
I WANTED TO MENTION ABOUT THE
ROOFTOP EDITION SHOULD BE SET
BACK ONE FULL DAY FROM THE
PRIMARY ELEVATION THE BUILDING
ON THIS BUILDING THE EACH
OF THE BAYS IS 19 FEET WIDE
PLUS I TOOK OUT SIX FEET FOR
THE CENTER THAT LEAVES NINETEEN
ON EITHER SIDE AND IF YOU SET
BACK THE PROPOSED FOURTH FLOOR
AT 19 FEET IT WOULDN'T BE
VISIBLE FROM ACROSS THE STREET
IF YOU COMPARE IT TO THAT
PERSPECTIVE DRAWING.
BUT THE FIFTH FLOOR WOULD NEED
TO BE SET BACK SIGNIFICANTLY
FARTHER.
ALL RIGHT.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION I'M GOING
TO DIVIDE THIS INTO THE THREE
PARTS OF THE APPLICATION.
THAT'S THE WAY THAT THE
PROPOSED MOTIONS THAT YOU CAN
USE OR NOT USE ARE SET UP.
THE FIRST ONE IS BUILDING DEMO
AND RECONSTRUCTION STAFF
BELIEVES THAT THE WORK DOES NOT
MEET THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR STANDARDS ONE, TWO,
FIVE, SIX, NINE OR TEN.
THE WORK DOES NOT MEET THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS FOR
ALTERATIONS OF THE NEW USE
OF ADDITIONS DISTRICT OR NAROD
SETTING BUILDING SITE MASONRY
ARE SETTING AND THE WORK DOES
NOT MEET THE ANAMBRA HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC
COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES OR NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN HISTORIC
COMMERCIAL SETTINGS FOR
STOREFRONTS STAFF BELIEVES THAT
THE NEW DESIGN IS SIMPLE AND
COMPATIBLE REMOVING THE
CLADDING THE STACK STONE
COLUMNS IS APPROPRIATE.
NO LIGHTING IS PROPOSED AND
STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
OF THIS PORTION OF THE
APPLICATION FOR THE WINDOW
PORTION OF THE APPLICATION
INSTALLING WOOD REPLICAS OF THE
HISTORIC ARCHTOP WINDOWS FROM
THE SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS AS
APPROPRIATE WINDOW WORKSHEETS
HAVE BEEN SUBMITTED THAT
SPECIFY REPLICAS OF THE
EXISTING DAMAGE SASSIER SASHAYS
AND STAFF RECOMMENDS THAT THIS
PORTION OF THE APPLICATION ALSO
BE APPROVED.
THAT IS IT FOR THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH MISS
THATCHER.
OK, SO COMMISSIONER ROSS AND
MYSELF WERE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE SO LET'S GIVE THE
REVIEW REPORT.
WHY DON'T YOU GO AHEAD.
OK, I COULD START SO I'D
ACTUALLY BEEN TO THE SITE
TWICE.
THE FIRST TIME AROUND WAS
ACTUALLY LAST MONTH AT LEAST
ONCE I VISITED SO WE DID
ACTUALLY THE FIRST KIND OF GO
AROUND WE WERE ABLE TO GET
BEHIND THE KIND OF BOARD UP AT
FIRST STORY AND GET AN IDEA
OF THE NATURE OF THE
STOREFRONTS AND THE STAFF
REPORT IS IS PRETTY MUCH ON
TARGET WITH THE FACT THAT
THERE'S REALLY NO STORED FABRIC
THERE.
AND THEN OF COURSE WE DID GET A
CHANCE ALSO TO SEE IN PERSON
ONE OF THE CHARRED OUT WINDOWS
FROM THE THIRD STORY, THE
ORIGINAL WINDOWS AND THEY DID
LOOK TO BE IN REALLY GOOD
CONDITION.
SO WE DID GET TO SEE THAT AND
JUST KIND OF IN TERMS OF KIND
OF STEPPING BACK LOOKING AT THE
BUILDING AS A WHOLE AND
CHECKING OUT THE REAR ELEVATION
AS WELL AS FRONT ELEVATION.
>> THE BUILDING IS A BEAUTIFUL
BUILDING.
IT'S APPEARS HIGHLY INTACT WHEN
YOU LOOK AT THE BUILDING WITHIN
THE CONTEXT OF ITS SURROUNDS
YOU DO GET A SENSE OF JUST A
NICE ROAD THREE STOREY BRICK
HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
SO I MEAN I FEEL LIKE THE STAFF
REPORT PRETTY MUCH ON TARGET
WITH THE DESCRIPTION OF THE
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
RECOMMENDATIONS.
>> NO, THANK YOU.
YEAH, I AGREE WITH THAT AND I
AGREE WITH THE WITH WHAT I
HEARD IN THE VERY THOROUGH
STAFF REPORT.
>> I THINK THAT THERE THERE IS
OF THOSE PHOTOS THAT YOU ADDED
THAT SHOW THE VIEW FROM DOWN
THE BLOCK I THINK REALLY YOU A
PICTURE IS WORTH A THOUSAND
WORDS LIKE THAT THAT'S REALLY
YOU KEY TO THE PROJECT HERE AND
SEEING THAT ROW OF THREE STOREY
BUILDINGS AND JUST THE KIND
THAT THE NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING
IN CONTEXT FOR THIS PROPERTY IS
VERY IMPORTANT AND AND THEN YOU
KNOW, THIS THERE'S THE MAIN
STREET SIDE OF THE BUILDING AND
THEN THERE'S ALSO THE ALLEY
SIDE AND SO THIS IS ALMOST LIKE
A I DON'T WOULD LIKE TO THINK
ABOUT MAYBE LIKE A CORNER LOT
OR SOMETHING WHERE IT'S LIKE
YOU KIND OF HAVE TO RIGHT AWAY
VIEWS BECAUSE THE ALLEY IS
TECHNICALLY A PUBLIC RIGHT
AWAY.
>> AND SO YOU KNOW THAT THAT
FACADE THAT'S FACING THE ALLEY
IS IS FACING A PUBLIC RIGHT
AWAY AND SO IT JUST YOU KNOW,
WE SHOULD CONSIDER THAT WHEN
WHEN GOING THROUGH ALL THE
STANDARDS.
>> OK, SO NOW LET'S LET'S MOVE
TO OK NEXT STEP WILL BE TO HAVE
THE APPLICANT COME UP AND YOU
HAVE FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK AND
WE'D LIKE TO KNOW IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING TO ADD TO THE TO THE
STAFF REPORT OR TO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
>> ANYTHING THAT YOU'VE HEARD
SO FAR.
SO PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS PRECIPITATORS ONE THREE
ONE E COMMERCE STREET MILFORD,
MICHIGAN.
ONE THING WE SHOULD THINK ABOUT
IN THIS IS THAT THE ORIGINAL
USE OF THIS BUILDING WAS THE
MASONIC TEMPLE.
IT WAS THE ASSEMBLY USE FOR FOR
MANY YEARS.
HOWEVER, SINCE IT WAS NO LONGER
SOME USE THERE REALLY I DON'T
KNOW WHO WAS IN THIS BUILDING
SINCE THAT TIME.
I MEAN THE INTERIOR IS THE
SECOND AND THIRD HAVE NEVER
BEEN LEASED OUT AFTER A LONG
TIME PERIOD THAT WE CAN SEE
THERE'S LOTS OF I MEAN IT JUST
HASN'T BEEN OCCUPIED A LONG,
VERY LONG TIME.
SO MARKETING THE ASSEMBLY USE
SUCH IS LIKE I DON'T KNOW A
THEATER OR SOMETHING IS NOT
MARKETABLE RIGHT NOW.
OFFICE SPACE IS DEFINITELY NOT
IN THE MARKET SO THE OWNERS
DEFINITELY
CONSIDERING ADDING
SOME MORE RESIDENTIAL IS IN
DEMAND IN THE INTERIOR RIGHT
NOW.
SO THE CONTEXT OF THE BUILDING
HAS CHANGED FROM ITS ORIGINAL
USE TO WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING NOW
AND WE'RE TRYING TO MAINTAIN
SIXTEEN UNITS IF POSSIBLE AND
REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF INTRUSION
ON THE UNDER THE STREET LEVEL.
SO WE'VE TRIED TO STEP BACK AS
BEST WE CAN IF WE STEP BACK
BEFORE THEY BASICALLY MEANS WE
LOSE FOUR UNITS OUT OF THE
SIXTEEN OR WE GOT TO GO A SIX
STOREY FARTHER BACK WHICH I
THOUGHT WAS BARELY GOING TO
WORK AT THAT POINT.
I MEAN WE WOULD ONLY GET
FOURTEEN UNITS BUT THEN HAVE A
SIX STOREY STEP WAY BACK ON THE
BASE.
SO IT'S SOMETHING TO THINK
ABOUT THAT GOING TWENTY TWENTY
THOSE ARE FOUR UNITS RIGHT
THERE WE COULD PUT A SIX STOREY
OR EVEN A SEVEN WAY BACK BUT
WE'RE JUST ADDING TO THE HEIGHT
OF THE BUILDING AND IT'S NOT
THE DESIGN OR THE OWNER.
OK THANK YOU.
I'M SAYING IF I AM CONSTRUCTION
DIRT FLOOR CURRENTLY IT'S
COMPLETELY BARREN IT'S NOT
USABLE WE HAVE TO UNOCCUPIED
BUILDING A PERMANENT STRUCTURAL
ENGINEER RECOMMENDATION IS
WORKING ON A TEMPORARY SHORING
SECOND FLOOR WAS NEVER USED THE
JOY START ALSO BURN SO THERE IS
REALLY AN OCCUPANCY ON THE
SECOND OR THIRD FLOOR.
THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN BE
OCCUPIED IS TO DO ALL THIS
STRUCTURE AND I CHRIS MENTIONED
SOME OF THE SETBACK AS WE GET
MORE SETBACK IT'S GOING TO
REQUIRE TO DO MORE HEIGHT, GO
TO SIX SEVENTH FLOOR AND WE'RE
TRYING TO KEEP IT DONE AS BEST
WE CAN FOR VISIBILITY.
WE WE KNOW FROM A STREET YOU
CANNOT SEE FOURTH NO MATTER
WHICH SIDE YOU STAY.
WE DID A TEST.
I DID A TEST OF EXACT HEIGHT.
IF YOU STAND CROSS STREET, YOUR
BACK IS AGAINST STORE FRONT.
YOU CANNOT SEE THE FOURTH
FLOOR.
YOU CAN SEE A FIFTH FLOOR
MINIMAL AND THAT'S ONE OF THE
REASONS THAT THE ARCHITECT THE
ROUTE IS TO MINIMIZE THE
VISIBILITY OF THE FIFTH FLOOR
AND ANY MORE SETBACK REQUIRES
ADDITIONAL YOU KNOW, IT'S A
VERY CHALLENGING PROJECT
EXPENSIVE.
SO ONLY WAY TO MAKE THIS WORK
IS TO GET A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF UNITS AND THEN WE TALK ABOUT
THE BACK WALL BEING
DETERIORATED AND NEEDS TO BE
SHORT BEFORE WE CAN YOU KNOW,
REPLACE IT.
SO THAT'S ALL I HAVE TO SAY AND
I MEAN TO REACH TO CONFIRM THE
BEFORE FLOOR IS NOT AT THE
PERFECT LEVEL LOWER DOWN FROM
THE PARAPET.
SO IN A SENSE THE FOURTH FLOOR
IS NOT APPARENT FROM THE STREET
LEVEL THAT THERE IS EVEN A
FOURTH FLOOR THERE.
YOU WOULD ONLY SEE VISIBILITY
OF THE FIFTH FLOOR.
ARE YOU SEEING THE PARAPETS
HIDING SOME OF THE YES.
THE PARAPET IS HIDING MOST
OF THE FOURTH FLOOR ESPECIALLY
FROM THE STREET LEVEL.
YOU DON'T EVEN SEE THE FOURTH
FLOOR AT ALL.
YOU EVEN DON'T SEE THE WINDOWS
OR DOORS THERE.
SO IT'S ONLY APPARENT THE FIFTH
FLOOR IS THERE BUT THE ONE FROM
THE STREET WOULD KNOW THAT'S
THE FOURTH FLOOR.
THANK YOU BOTH
.
OK, I'D NOW LIKE TO OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS A WAIT WHAT DID
COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS?
SORRY I SKIPPED AHEAD BUT I
ASSUME SOMEONE WOULD HAVE
CHIMED IN TO HAVE QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT.
OK, I'D LIKE TO OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS APPLICATION
.
PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE MADE IN
PERSON OR BY CALLING IN USING
THE INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON
THE MEETING AGENDA IN THE VIDEO
FEED TO ELECTRONICALLY RAISE
YOUR HAND AFTER DIALING INTO
THE MEETING PLEASE PRESS STAR
NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
>> SO IS ANYONE ON THE CALL?
WE DO HAVE A COUPLE OF PEOPLE
BUT THEY ARE NOT INDICATING
THAT THEY'D LIKE TO SPEAK.
OK, SO HIT STAR NINE IF YOU'D
LIKE TO TALK REGARDING 15 TO 17
S MAIN PLEASE I'LL GIVE IT A
SECOND AND WE'RE GOOD.
>> WE'RE GOOD.
OK, I WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION OF THIS
APPLICATION SO I'LL ASK IF ANY
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A MOTION BUT I WOULD SUGGEST
MAYBE WE START WITH WITH
WINDOWS OR STORE FRONT JUST TO
KIND OF GET THINGS MOVING.
>> BUT DOES ANYONE WANT TO MAKE
A MOTION?
OK, SO I'LL START WITH THE BUT
THE STORE FRONTS OK I MOVE THAT
THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE PORTION OF THE
APPLICATION AT TWO FIFTEEN TO
SEVENTEEN S MAIN STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
MAIN STREET HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO REPLACE THE TWO NON ORIGINAL
STOREFRONTS WITH TWO NEW
STOREFRONTS AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES ESPECIALLY FOR
STOREFRONTS AND THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARD FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TWO FIVE SIX NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING STORE FRONTS MASONRY
AND SAID SUPPORT OK THAT WAS
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER ROSS AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
QUIJANO.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE STOREFRONT MOTION?
I WOULD SAY THAT THE STOREFRONT
DESIGN IS I FEEL IT'S REALLY
WELL THOUGHT THROUGH AND WILL
VASTLY IMPROVE THE APPEARANCE
OF THE BUILDING.
SO I THINK IT'S VERY I AGREE
WITH THOSE COMMENTS.
I THINK IT'S A GREAT
IMPROVEMENT ON THE STREET LIFE
EXPERIENCE OF THAT PART OF MAIN
STREET.
SO I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO THAT
.
>> RIGHT.
I AGREE.
I THINK THAT ON ITS OWN IT'S A
GREAT DESIGN BUT ESPECIALLY
GIVEN WHAT'S CURRENTLY THERE
AND THEN TO HAVE THIS I AGREE
EVEN MORE SO LET'S LET'S VOTE
ON THIS MOTION UNLESS THERE'S
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION WHICH I
DON'T SEE.
SO ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
OK, SO THAT MOTION CARRIES AND
NOW SHALL WE GO TO THE WINDOWS
MOTION?
IS SOMEONE WILLING TO MAKE A
MOTION ON THE WINDOWS PHONE OK
,I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
PORTION OF THE APPLICATION AT
TWO 15 TO 17 S MAIN STREET THE
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
MAIN STREET HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO REPLACE THE TWO NON ORIGINAL
STOREFRONTS.
OH NO THE LANGUAGE OF THIS IS
NO SORRY MY BUDGET TO REPLACE
THE EXISTING SECOND FLOOR AND
THIRD FLOOR WINDOWS WITH
REPLICA HISTORIC REPLICA UNITS
AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE AND OUR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES ESPECIALLY FOR
WINDOWS AND THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS.
ONE TO FIVE AND SIX AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS SECOND.
OK, THAT WAS MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER QUIJANO AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ROS.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE WINDOWS MOTION?
I WOULD JUST SAY ONCE AGAIN I
APPRECIATE THE APPLICANTS
ATTENTION TO DETAIL AND
REPLICATING DOING A REALLY GOOD
JOB OF REPLICATING THOSE
AWESOME THIRD STOREY WINDOWS
AND OBVIOUSLY DOING A GOOD JOB
TO REPLACE THOSE TINY WINDOWS
AT THE SECOND STORY.
SO LET'S AGAIN APPRECIATE THIS
ASPECT OF THE APPLICATION.
>> OK, I WAS I JUST HAD A
QUESTION ABOUT THE WINDOWS.
ARE THEY I I SAW THE SPEC BUT
IT DID NOT SAY THE MATERIAL
INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR IS IT IS
IT A FULL WOOD WINDOW.
OK, SORRY WE CAN'T RECORD YOU
IF YOU DON'T STAND THERE AGAIN
THE HISTORICAL WINDOWS WILL BE
MATCHING EXISTING DAMAGE
WINDOWS.
YEAH PILLANS GOT A POSITION
OF ONE OF WINDOWS AND THEY TOOK
IT FOR FOUR FILM YOU KNOW
INSPECTION AND THEY ARE DOING A
FULL WOOD ON THAT INSIDE
ALUMINUM ON THE OUTSIDE BLACK
BLACK AND IT IS INSULATED GLASS
THE MUSEUMS THE ARCHITECTURAL
LOOK OF THE WINDOWS IS EXACT
THE SAME THICKNESS ARE THE SAME
AND BUT ALSO I CAN TELL YOU
ABOUT THE WINDOWS.
>> ARE THEY FULL DIVIDED LIGHT
OR ARE THEY SIMULATED DIVIDED
LIKE NO FOR A WHITE FULL
DIVIDED LIKE ORIGINAL WINDOWS
WERE FULL DIVIDED SURE YEAH OK
AND OBVIOUSLY THE SECOND WINDOW
SECOND FLOOR WINDOWS ARE
SIMILAR.
>> I DON'T THINK YOU'D NOTICE
ONE THING ON THE ARCH THE ARCH
FRONT OF THE SECOND FLOOR
OF WINDOWS THOSE WERE INFILL
AFTER SOME TIME THOSE THOSE ARE
NOT ORIGINAL.
SO OUR GOAL IS TO TAKE IN FILL
OUT AND INSERT A LARGE WINDOW
THAT THAT USED TO BE BEFORE I
DON'T REMEMBER THE HAJJ BUT I
KNOW IT WAS BEFORE NINETEEN
EIGHTY ERM SO THE GOAL IS TO
MATCH THE SAME ARCHED WINDOW
THAT USED A THE ORIGINALLY
RIGHT WE SAW THEM IN THE PACKET
.
YEAH I JUST WANT TO MAKE NOTE
THAT NOWHERE IN THE APPLICATION
DID I FIND THAT THESE WERE
ALUMINUM CLAD WINDOWS.
I'M NOT SURPRISED BY THAT BUT I
WAS UNDER THE IMPRESSION THAT
THEY WERE WOOD REPLICA WINDOWS
OK SO THEY'RE NOT REALLY
REPLICAS THEY'RE CLAD IT CAN BE
EUTAW I WAS TOLD.
>> WELL YEAH.
YOU GUYS KNOW YOU'RE OPEN UP
WINDOWS.
THANK YOU FOR OK THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> OK SO YEAH I WAS WONDERING I
THOUGHT THEY'D BE CLAD BUT
THEY'RE CLAD WINDOWS THEY'RE ON
I FEEL LIKE SINCE THEY'RE ON
THE SECOND AND THIRD FLOOR IT'S
NOT YOU'RE NOT RIGHT THEY'RE
THE ILLUME CLAD ALUMINUM IS CAN
BE TRICKY TO MATCH THE HISTORIC
DETAIL.
YEAH.
SO I YEAH I MIGHT WANT TO JUST
TAKE A LOOK AT THE WINDOWS REAL
QUICK.
>> I'M JUST GOING TO LOOK AT
THE HISTORIC SORRY SAME
QUESTION AGAIN FOR YOU SO I
KNOW THERE'S LANGUAGE ON SOME
PAGE AND AND YOUR MATERIAL IS
SUBMITTED ABOUT THE POWER IS
GOING TO MATCH.
YES.
THE PROFILES YOU HAVE THE
HISTORIC ONES AS EXAMPLES TO
REFERENCE BUT DID ARE THEY
ACTUALLY DOING A CUSTOM
PROFILE?
ACTUALLY THIS IS A NEW DAY.
PEOPLE CAME UP WITH A FULL
HISTORIC DIVISION.
THEY USED TO BE PARTIAL IN
ORDER.
THIS HAPPENED THIS YEAR.
SO THEY ACTUALLY IT'S A FULL
HISTORIC THEY CAN ONLY COST
FORTY TWO WEEKS FROM START TO
FINISH.
YES.
VERY LONG LEAD TIME AND IT
HASN'T BEEN STARTED AND READY.
YOU COME UP WITH THE CLADDING
TO JUST JUST TO CLARIFY THEY'RE
TAKING THE WINDOW WE'VE GOT
THEY'RE GOING THESE ARE THE
PROFILE IN EXACTLY THE PROFILE
OF ABSOLUTELY WINDOW.
IF NOT IT WOULD BE WOULD
TOTALLY BE EXACT THEY CAN MATCH
EXACT ONE OK
AND I'M GOING I
MEAN I'M I'M ASSUMING I'M GOING
TO ASSUME THEY'RE GOING FOR THE
WINDOW WORKSHEETS AND THE NOTES
THAT I MEAN IT'S LITERALLY
SAYING OK, THIS IS GOING TO BE
AN EXACT MATCH, YOU KNOW.
YEAH.
IT'S PRESENTED RIGHT.
AND THAT IT'S AN EXACT MATCH
YEAH.
BASED ON A CHARRED REMAINS
AND THAT IT'S AN EXACT MATCH
OF AN EXISTING WINDOW AND
BASED ON A CHARRED REMAINS
HISTORIC PHOTOS I WOULD IMAGINE
OF AN EXISTING WINDOW AND
SO IT'S HARD TO REALLY KNOW
HISTORIC PHOTOS I WOULD IMAGINE
EXACTLY WHAT THE PROFILES ARE.
SO IT'S HARD TO REALLY KNOW
I WOULD SAY.
EXACTLY WHAT THE PROFILES ARE.
RIGHT.
I WOULD SAY.
IS IT IS IT AN ANGLE IS IT AN
RIGHT.
OJITO LIKE YOU MIGHT NOT BE
IS IT IS IT AN ANGLE IS IT AN
ABLE TO KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THAT
OJITO LIKE YOU MIGHT NOT BE
IS TO ME JUST LOOKING AT THESE
ABLE TO KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THAT
CHARRED WINDOWS THEY LOOK LIKE
IS TO ME JUST LOOKING AT THESE
KIND FLAT PROFILES WITH WITH
CHARRED WINDOWS THEY LOOK LIKE
KIND OF BEVELS AS OPPOSED TO
KIND FLAT PROFILES WITH WITH
LIKE CURVY KIND OF RETURNS
KIND OF BEVELS AS OPPOSED TO
WHICH WOULD BE VERY DIFFICULT
LIKE CURVY KIND OF RETURNS
TO DO IN ALUMINUM LEARN TO WORK
WHICH WOULD BE VERY DIFFICULT
WITH YEAH.
TO DO IN ALUMINUM LEARN TO WORK
SO JUST YOU KNOW IF I SAW
WITH YEAH.
SOMETHING REALLY CURVY ON THE
SO JUST YOU KNOW IF I SAW
PHOTOS I WOULD REALLY WANT TO
SOMETHING REALLY CURVY ON THE
KNOW A LOT MORE ABOUT PELLIS
PHOTOS I WOULD REALLY WANT TO
NEW ALUMINUM HISTORIC WINDOW
KNOW A LOT MORE ABOUT PELLIS
LINE.
NEW ALUMINUM HISTORIC WINDOW
BUT I FEEL LIKE JUST WHAT I'M
LINE.
SEEING THERE IT'S EASY TO MATCH
BUT I FEEL LIKE JUST WHAT I'M
THOSE DUBAL THAT BEVELS.
SEEING THERE IT'S EASY TO MATCH
>> YEAH OUT OF THE WINDOW THERE
THOSE DUBAL THAT BEVELS.
WAS LESS FIRE THE ONE I GAVE TO
>> YEAH OUT OF THE WINDOW THERE
IT'S ACTUALLY IT'S YOU KNOW
WAS LESS FIRE THE ONE I GAVE TO
IT'S THE VOLUME IN THE CENTER.
IT'S ACTUALLY IT'S YOU KNOW
IT'S A FLY THAT'S ALL A SQUARE.
IT'S THE VOLUME IN THE CENTER.
IT'S A SQUARE.
IT'S A FLY THAT'S ALL A SQUARE.
OK, THE COLOR WAS NOT
IT'S A SQUARE.
NOTICEABLE BECAUSE IT WAS
OK, THE COLOR WAS NOT
PAINTED OVER THE YEARS MANY
NOTICEABLE BECAUSE IT WAS
TIMES I SURE DO COLOR AND I SAW
PAINTED OVER THE YEARS MANY
GRAY AND ALL THE WINDOW AND
TIMES I SURE DO COLOR AND I SAW
OBVIOUSLY SOME OF THEM WERE
GRAY AND ALL THE WINDOW AND
SEVERELY BURNED.
OBVIOUSLY SOME OF THEM WERE
IT WAS A NOTICEABLE BUT I SEEN
SEVERELY BURNED.
SOME BLUE SOME SOME GRAY ON THE
IT WAS A NOTICEABLE BUT I SEEN
OUTSIDE INSIDE THINK THEY'RE
SOME BLUE SOME SOME GRAY ON THE
BOTH THE SAME COLOR ON THE
OUTSIDE INSIDE THINK THEY'RE
INSIDE AND OUTSIDE.
BOTH THE SAME COLOR ON THE
>> OK, THAT'S REALLY THE
INSIDE AND OUTSIDE.
CENTERPIECE.
>> OK, THAT'S REALLY THE
I KNOW THIS WAS THE SQUARE THE
CENTERPIECE.
OTHER PIECE WAS REALLY HARD
I KNOW THIS WAS THE SQUARE THE
BECAUSE MOST OF THEM WERE
OTHER PIECE WAS REALLY HARD
REALLY, REALLY SEVERELY BURNED.
BECAUSE MOST OF THEM WERE
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
REALLY, REALLY SEVERELY BURNED.
>> OK ANY COMMENTS ON ON THE
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
WINDOWS BEFORE WE HEAD TO A
>> OK ANY COMMENTS ON ON THE
VOTE HERE.
WINDOWS BEFORE WE HEAD TO A
NO OK ALL RIGHT.
VOTE HERE.
>> SO WE'RE VOTING ON THE
NO OK ALL RIGHT.
WINDOW MOTION AND SO ALL THOSE
>> SO WE'RE VOTING ON THE
IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY YES.
WINDOW MOTION AND SO ALL THOSE
YES, YES.
IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
YES, YES.
NO.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
>> THAT MOTION CARRIES AND SO
NO.
NOW WE CAN MOVE ON TO THE THIRD
>> THAT MOTION CARRIES AND SO
MOTION.
NOW WE CAN MOVE ON TO THE THIRD
>> THANK YOU MR THATCHER FOR
MOTION.
PROVIDING THESE MOTIONS FOR US
>> THANK YOU MR THATCHER FOR
.
PROVIDING THESE MOTIONS FOR US
THEY'VE BEEN VERY HELPFUL THUS
.
FAR SO LET'S CONTINUE.
THEY'VE BEEN VERY HELPFUL THUS
CAN CAN ANYONE MAKE A MOTION ON
FAR SO LET'S CONTINUE.
THE REST OF THE PROJECT?
CAN CAN ANYONE MAKE A MOTION ON
OK, THANK YOU BENJAMIN.
THE REST OF THE PROJECT?
I'M ACTUALLY NOT SURE WHERE THE
OK, THANK YOU BENJAMIN.
MOTION YEAH I THINK THAT IT'S
I'M ACTUALLY NOT SURE WHERE THE
FINE.
MOTION YEAH I THINK THAT IT'S
IT'S ALWAYS LIKE BURIED
FINE.
SOMEWHERE IN THE PACKET YOU
IT'S ALWAYS LIKE BURIED
KNOW FROM WHERE.
SOMEWHERE IN THE PACKET YOU
>> YEAH THAT'S FOR SURE.
KNOW FROM WHERE.
I MEAN THE COMMISSION ISSUED
>> YEAH THAT'S FOR SURE.
THIS A CERTIFICATE
I MEAN THE COMMISSION ISSUED
OF APPROPRIATE APPROPRIATENESS
THIS A CERTIFICATE
FOR THE PORTION OF THE
OF APPROPRIATE APPROPRIATENESS
APPLICATION 215 SEVENTEEN SOUTH
FOR THE PORTION OF THE
MAIN STREET CONTRIBUTING
APPLICATION 215 SEVENTEEN SOUTH
PROPERTY IN THE MAJOR HISTORIC
MAIN STREET CONTRIBUTING
DISTRICT TO DEMOLISH ALL OF THE
PROPERTY IN THE MAJOR HISTORIC
FRONT FACADE INSIDE WALLS
DISTRICT TO DEMOLISH ALL OF THE
OF EXISTING BUILDING CONSTRUCT
FRONT FACADE INSIDE WALLS
A FIVE STORY BUILDING WITHIN
OF EXISTING BUILDING CONSTRUCT
THOSE THREE WALLS AS OPPOSED
A FIVE STORY BUILDING WITHIN
THE WORK OF THE COMPATABLE THE
THOSE THREE WALLS AS OPPOSED
COMPATABLE AND EXTERIOR DESIGN
THE WORK OF THE COMPATABLE THE
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURES, MATERIAL
COMPATABLE AND EXTERIOR DESIGN
AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURES, MATERIAL
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES ESPECIALLY
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
FOR FOR ADDITIONS TO COMMERCIAL
DESIGN GUIDELINES ESPECIALLY
BUILDINGS YOU CAN NEW
FOR FOR ADDITIONS TO COMMERCIAL
CONSTRUCTION AND THE SIX
BUILDINGS YOU CAN NEW
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
CONSTRUCTION AND THE SIX
STANDARDS OF REHABILITATION AND
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATION
STANDARDS OF REHABILITATION AND
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATION
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE TWO
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
THREE FIVE SIX NINE TEN AND THE
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE TWO
GUIDELINES FOR ALTERATIONS
THREE FIVE SIX NINE TEN AND THE
SLASH ADDITIONS FOR THESE FOR A
GUIDELINES FOR ALTERATIONS
NEW USE ADDITIONS DISTRICT OR
SLASH ADDITIONS FOR THESE FOR A
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTINGS BUILDING
NEW USE ADDITIONS DISTRICT OR
SITES MAZARI AND SETTING.
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTINGS BUILDING
THANK YOU SIR.
SITES MAZARI AND SETTING.
OK THAT WAS MOVED BY
THANK YOU SIR.
COMMISSIONER CALDERON AND
OK THAT WAS MOVED BY
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ROSS.
COMMISSIONER CALDERON AND
IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON THE
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ROSS.
DEMOLITION NEW CONSTRUCTION
IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
DEMOLITION NEW CONSTRUCTION
ANY COMMENTS I'M TRYING TO WE
MOTION?
SHOULD GO ABOUT TALKING ABOUT
ANY COMMENTS I'M TRYING TO WE
IT.
SHOULD GO ABOUT TALKING ABOUT
>> WELL, WE COULD TALK LET'S
IT.
LET'S SPLIT IT UP BECAUSE THERE
>> WELL, WE COULD TALK LET'S
IS A COUPLE PARTS TO IT.
LET'S SPLIT IT UP BECAUSE THERE
YEAH.
IS A COUPLE PARTS TO IT.
AND I THINK THAT WE SHOULD TALK
YEAH.
ABOUT ALL OF THEM AND KIND
AND I THINK THAT WE SHOULD TALK
OF GO THROUGH ONE BY ONE AND I
ABOUT ALL OF THEM AND KIND
THINK THAT LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
OF GO THROUGH ONE BY ONE AND I
ADDITION FIRST OFF.
THINK THAT LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
SO THE SPECIFICALLY THE FOURTH
ADDITION FIRST OFF.
AND FIFTH FLOOR BUT IT'S MORE
SO THE SPECIFICALLY THE FOURTH
OR LESS BUILDING AN ENTIRE FIVE
AND FIFTH FLOOR BUT IT'S MORE
STORY BUILDING WITHIN THE
OR LESS BUILDING AN ENTIRE FIVE
EXISTING SHELL.
STORY BUILDING WITHIN THE
SO IT IS TECHNICALLY AN
EXISTING SHELL.
ADDITION BUT WE WHAT ABOUT THE
SO IT IS TECHNICALLY AN
FOURTH THE ADDED FOURTH FIFTH
ADDITION BUT WE WHAT ABOUT THE
FLOORS?
FOURTH THE ADDED FOURTH FIFTH
MAYBE THAT'S A TOPIC
FLOORS?
OF DISCUSSION TO START OFF.
MAYBE THAT'S A TOPIC
>> UM, I'M VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
OF DISCUSSION TO START OFF.
THE SET BACK UM GO OUT THERE TO
>> UM, I'M VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
SEE THAT SET BECAUSE WE KIND
THE SET BACK UM GO OUT THERE TO
OF LEARN FROM, YOU KNOW, SORT
SEE THAT SET BECAUSE WE KIND
OF A NEW TAKE ON WHAT YOU CAN
OF LEARN FROM, YOU KNOW, SORT
OR CAN'T SEE I'D LIKE SORRY.
OF A NEW TAKE ON WHAT YOU CAN
YEAH.
OR CAN'T SEE I'D LIKE SORRY.
JUST TO HAVE THE I JUST IT'S OK
YEAH.
.
JUST TO HAVE THE I JUST IT'S OK
I AGREE AND NOT ONLY JUST THE
.
FRONT BUT ALSO THE SITES THAT
I AGREE AND NOT ONLY JUST THE
THERE STILL IS THIS BUILDING
FRONT BUT ALSO THE SITES THAT
SITTING RIGHT ON TOP OF THE TWO
THERE STILL IS THIS BUILDING
SIDEWALLS.
SITTING RIGHT ON TOP OF THE TWO
SO IT'S IT'S NOT I MEAN THIS
SIDEWALLS.
ISN'T JUST I MEAN THIS IS NOT A
SO IT'S IT'S NOT I MEAN THIS
ROOFTOP ADDITION PHASE YOU SO
ISN'T JUST I MEAN THIS IS NOT A
YOU COULD SEE HERE SO IT WOULD
ROOFTOP ADDITION PHASE YOU SO
BE AWESOME IF IT WAS SET IN AT
YOU COULD SEE HERE SO IT WOULD
THE SIDES AS WELL AS AT THE
BE AWESOME IF IT WAS SET IN AT
FRONT.
THE SIDES AS WELL AS AT THE
OK AND IT'S OK.
FRONT.
SO SO COMMISSIONER ROSS IS
OK AND IT'S OK.
TALKING ABOUT THAT USUALLY WHEN
SO SO COMMISSIONER ROSS IS
YOU DO IN ADDITION WELL YOU
TALKING ABOUT THAT USUALLY WHEN
HAVE TO DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN
YOU DO IN ADDITION WELL YOU
THE NEW AND THE OLD IN A WAY TO
HAVE TO DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN
DO THAT TO STEP IN LIKE A
THE NEW AND THE OLD IN A WAY TO
TYPICAL SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
DO THAT TO STEP IN LIKE A
A REAL ADDITION STEPS IN FROM
TYPICAL SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
THE EXISTING SO YOU CAN READ
A REAL ADDITION STEPS IN FROM
THAT THERE IS AN ADDITION
THE EXISTING SO YOU CAN READ
HAPPENING AND THE COMMENT IS
THAT THERE IS AN ADDITION
THAT IN THE IN THE REAR EDITION
HAPPENING AND THE COMMENT IS
FOR THIS BUILDING THERE'S NO
THAT IN THE IN THE REAR EDITION
THERE'S NO SET BACK OR STEP IN
FOR THIS BUILDING THERE'S NO
SO THERE'S NO WAY TO READ THAT
THERE'S NO SET BACK OR STEP IN
THERE WAS AN EXISTING HISTORIC
SO THERE'S NO WAY TO READ THAT
ONE AND A HALF STOREY BRICK
THERE WAS AN EXISTING HISTORIC
ADDITION TO THE ORIGINAL
ONE AND A HALF STOREY BRICK
HISTORIC EDITION.
ADDITION TO THE ORIGINAL
IS THAT THE CONCERN?
HISTORIC EDITION.
YEAH, I MEAN IT'S NOT EVEN
IS THAT THE CONCERN?
NECESSARILY BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY
YEAH, I MEAN IT'S NOT EVEN
WITH THE DIFFERENTIATION
NECESSARILY BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY
MATERIALITY YOU CAN TELL BUT
WITH THE DIFFERENTIATION
THERE IS NO RELIEF IN THE
MATERIALITY YOU CAN TELL BUT
HISTORIC REMNANTS OF THE
THERE IS NO RELIEF IN THE
BUILDING ARE COMPLETELY
HISTORIC REMNANTS OF THE
OVERWHELMED BY THIS GIGANTIC
BUILDING ARE COMPLETELY
EDITION.
OVERWHELMED BY THIS GIGANTIC
THERE'S NO RELIEF AT ALL.
EDITION.
YOU'RE JUST ABSOLUTELY CONSUMED
THERE'S NO RELIEF AT ALL.
EXCEPT FOR REALLY THE
YOU'RE JUST ABSOLUTELY CONSUMED
FOUNDATIONS.
EXCEPT FOR REALLY THE
>> RIGHT.
FOUNDATIONS.
SO THAT YOUR COMMENT IS
>> RIGHT.
SPECIFIC TO THE SIDES OF THE
SO THAT YOUR COMMENT IS
EDITION AS WELL AS THE I SAID
SPECIFIC TO THE SIDES OF THE
EARLIER BUT YEAH, YOU'RE YOU'RE
EDITION AS WELL AS THE I SAID
TALKING ABOUT SPECIFICALLY THE
EARLIER BUT YEAH, YOU'RE YOU'RE
TWO SIDES.
TALKING ABOUT SPECIFICALLY THE
THERE'S NO STEP IN ON BOTH
TWO SIDES.
SIDES LETTING US KNOW THAT
THERE'S NO STEP IN ON BOTH
THERE'S AN EXISTING BUILDING
SIDES LETTING US KNOW THAT
AND A NEW BUILDING AS WELL AS
THERE'S AN EXISTING BUILDING
THERE.
AND A NEW BUILDING AS WELL AS
I MEAN IDEALLY YOU'D WANT THE
THERE.
ADDITIONS TO BE SUBSERVIENT TO
I MEAN IDEALLY YOU'D WANT THE
THE HISTORIC BUILDING AND
I
GUESS FOR ME IT'S HARD TO KIND
OF BREAK THIS THING UP IN
PIECES BECAUSE I'M LOOKING AT
THIS AS A WHOLE SO IT'S HARD TO
SAY WELL IT'S FOR ME TO SAY
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE REAR AND
LET'S TALK IT'S BECAUSE ONE NEW
BRIGADE YES.
ONE MAN SO IT'S HARD TO CUT IT
INTO PIECES FOR ME ESPECIALLY
LOOKING AT THIS VIEW.
I MEAN YOU ONLY SEE A LITTLE
PORTION OF ON THE RIGHT HAND
SIDE.
YEAH.
WHERE I KNOW THAT THERE IS
DISCUSSION IN THE APPLICATION
OF THAT TO CONSTRUCT THESE NEW
SIDEWALLS.
YOU TECHNICALLY YEAH.
YOU HAVE TO YOU'RE NOT BEARING
ON THE EXISTING WELL BUT THE
PERCEPTION IS YOU'RE JUST
CONTINUING.
YEAH.
THAT YOU KNOW SOMEONE WHO'S NOT
AS FAMILIAR WITH THE THE
INTRICACY OF THE CONSTRUCTION
OF THIS BUILDING THEY'RE JUST
GOING TO SEE A CONTINUOUS
SIDEWALL PLAYING AND THINK OH
THAT THAT'S THE WALL THAT'S THE
HISTORIC WALL PERHAPS
CONTINUING ALL THE WAY UP.
WELL YEAH.
IF ANYTHING A SET BACK FROM THE
EXISTING WALL IS INCHES OR SO.
YEAH VERY NICE.
YEAH YEAH.
PERCEIVE THAT THIS IS JUST A
MASS OF THIS SPLIT SPACE
CONCRETE WALL.
YEAH YEAH.
WE TYPICALLY REALLY LIKE TO SEE
THAT THEN OFFSET THE LITTLE
RELIEF KIND OF THE RESPECT
OF THAT HISTORIC WALL.
YEAH AND WITH THIS BEING IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE BLOCK TO IT
REALLY YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT IT
FROM ALL ALL THE VIEWS IT'LL BE
EXPERIENCE
YOU KNOW JUST AS
STAFF IS READING THE STAFF
REPORT AND GOING THROUGH THE
VARIOUS AND STANDARD
RECOMMENDATIONS AND THE ANN
ARBOR GUIDE GUIDELINES AND IT
WAS JUST BOOM BOOM NOT MEETING,
NOT MEETING, NOT MEETING IS
HARD.
>> YEAH.
THE PARTICULAR STANDARD
STANDARD NINE IS NUTRITION'S
SHALL NOT DESTROY HISTORIC
MATERIALS.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD.
SO PARTICULARLY THAT'S WHERE WE
EXPECT TO SEE SOME SORT OF YOU
KNOW, TAKE THE HISTORIC
STRUCTURE AND EITHER LIKE
EXTRUDED STRAIGHT UP OR
STRAIGHT BACK OR JUST TAKE THE
FOOTPRINT AND GO STRAIGHT UP
FROM THAT BECAUSE THAT STANDARD
SAYS THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
AND SO AND THEN AND SO THAT IS
THE WAY OF ONE WAY
OF DIFFERENTIATING THE NEW
ADDITIONS FROM FROM THE
HISTORIC SO THAT THAT STANDARD
IS CLEARLY NOT BEING MET IN
THIS CASE.
I MEAN NOT BY MATERIALITY OR OR
A SET BACK AND THE THE REST
OF THAT SENTENCE AND THE
STANDARD NINE.
RIGHT.
ALSO ALSO APPLIES.
RIGHT, CORRECT.
YEAH.
AND IT DOES NOT WHAT WE'RE
SEEING IS PROPOSED MY MIND DOES
NOT MEAN THAT IT STATES SHALL
BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE MACING
SIZE SCALE AND ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURES TO PROTECT THE STARK
INTEGRITY OF THE PROPERTY AND
ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT EXCUSE
ME.
RIGHT SO THAT THIS THIS THE
MASSING JUST HAVING THAT
VISIBLE MASSING ABOVE THAT
HISTORIC THREE STOREY IS NOT
COMPATIBLE WITH THE THE INVITE.
I MEAN IT'S BATTLE WITH THE
PROPERTY AND IT'S ALSO NOT
COMPATIBLE WITH ITS ENVIRONMENT
WHERE YOU JUST HAVE ALL THOSE
THREE STOREY HISTORIC
STRUCTURES TOGETHER.
I THINK IF THERE WAS MORE OF A
SETBACK AND I WITHOUT STUDYING
WHAT THAT DISTANCE WOULD BE, I
CAN GIVE A NUMBER BUT I THINK
THAT WOULD BE WOULD NEED TO BE
DONE TO STUDY WHERE HOW FAR
BACK WOULD IT NEED TO BE TO TO
THEN BE COMPATIBLE WITH ITS
MASSIVE SIZE AND SCALE RIGHT
FROM THE MAIN STREET SIDE IF IT
WAS INVISIBLE IT WOULD BE
COMPATIBLE BECAUSE IT WOULD BE
INVISIBLE.
YOU WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO SEE IT.
BUT I THINK ALSO YOU HAVE TO
CONSIDER FROM THE ALISI THAT
RIGHT AWAY WHAT IS GOING ON
THERE OR AS YOU'RE WALKING DOWN
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU DID THIS IS
PART OF THE COMMITTEE REVIEW
WHEN YOU'RE WALKING DOWN THE B
LIBERTY BECAUSE YOU CAN KIND
OF SEE DOWN THE ALLEY I DON'T
KNOW DEPENDING I'M SURE IT'S
PRETTY FIVE STORY BUILDING I
DON'T KNOW PROBABLY COULD SEE
SOME OF IT.
YEAH, YOU COULD YEAH.
I MEAN ESSENTIALLY I MEAN I
FEEL LIKE AT THE END OF THE DAY
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
CONTEXT AND WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC BUILDING YOU'RE
TAKING A THREE STORY BRICK
BUILDING AND YOU'RE IT'S GOING
TO BE WITH A FLAT ROOF AND IT'S
GOING TO BE A FIVE STOREY BRICK
AND SPLIT BASE CONCRETE BLOCK
BUILDING WITH THIS KIND OF .
I MEAN AND THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE
GOING TO SEE AND IT'S TO ME
IT'S THAT CHANGING THE
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING YOU
YEAH.
AND I MEAN EVEN GETTING THE
STANDARD NUMBER 10 WHEN YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT NEW ADDITIONS AND
IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE BUILDING WILL BE
UNIMPAIRED.
WELL, THAT'S YEAH.
THAT'S NOT HERE AT ALL ALTHOUGH
I IS GOING BACK AND FORTH ON
THAT ONE BECAUSE THAT IF YOU'RE
GUTTING THE BUILDING BASICALLY
EXCEPT FOR THE THREE WALLS.
YEAH.
YOU CAN'T GO BACK BUT NOT
KNOWING THE CONDITION OF THE
FLOOR STRUCTURE FLOOR AND
CEILING STRUCTURE FOR ANY ONE
TO TO PROVIDE A NEW USE IN THIS
BUILDING, WHAT WOULD IT TAKE TO
YOU KNOW, CAN THEY CAN THEY
SYSTEM A BUNCH OF JOYCE OR IS
IT COMPLETELY UNSALVAGEABLE AND
YOU KNOW, HOW ARE IT MEETING
THE THE SIDE BRICK WALLS?
YOU KNOW, WHAT WOULD THEY WHAT
WOULD NEED TO BE DONE TO MAKE
IT OCCUPIABLE?
I MEAN I THINK THAT'S A GOOD
POINT.
I MEAN IT WAS THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT SO WHEN YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT STANDARD OR SIX AND
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
DETERIORATED TO FEATURES SO
WHEN WE WERE IN THE FIELD
ACTUALLY BOTH TIMES THERE IS A
QUESTION AROUND LIKE WALLS
THERE LIKE A REPORT FROM A
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER ACTUALLY
SPEAKING TO THAT NOT JUST
SAYING HEY, THIS IS WHAT WE'RE
GOING TO DO BUT ACTUALLY DOING
CONDITIONING AND TALKING ABOUT
LIKE LOOK, THIS FIRE HAS DONE
THIS.
THIS IS IN ORDER TO MAKE THIS
BUILDING OCCUPIABLE.
THIS IS WHAT WE NEED TO DO AT
OBJECTIVE FROM AN OBJECTIVE
PRESERVATION STANDPOINT VERSUS
HEY LIKE THIS THIS IS A
STRUCTURAL REPORT AROUND OF THE
PROGRAM.
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN GREAT TO
HAVE SOMETHING LIKE THAT TO
UNDERSTAND.
OK, LOOK, THIS IS REALLY WHAT
WE'RE DEALING WITH THE LIMITS
OF THIS BUILDING AND WE DON'T
REALLY HAVE THAT EITHER.
I AGREE.
I WOULD EVEN SAY FOR SOMETHING
THIS EXTREME WORKS LIKE A FULL
GUTTING OF THE BUILDING AND
THEN A CLAIM THAT THE HISTORIC
ALI FACADE NEEDS TO BE ENTIRELY
REMOVED BECAUSE THE STRUCTURAL
INTERVENTION I WOULD SAY YES,
THE STRUCTURAL ENGINEER BUT
ALSO I I WOULD REALLY
APPRECIATE LIKE A HISTORIC
PRESERVATION ARCHITECT AS WELL
TO TO WEIGH IN ON YOU KNOW, TO
TO BE ON THIS PROJECT.
I MEAN IT'S SO EXTREME IT WOULD
REALLY BE NICE TO HAVE THAT
POINT OF VIEW FROM THE
APPLICANT.
IT'S NOT REQUIRED OBVIOUSLY BUT
JUST IT IT WOULD GIVE US MORE
INFORMATION.
YEAH.
IT'S JUST SORT OF EXTREME CASE.
IT'S LIKE ACTUALLY LITERALLY
GOING THROUGH STANDARD NO.6
LIKE LET'S LOOK AT IT CAN'T WE
PRESERVE THIS?
>> YEAH.
IS IT POSSIBLE MAYBE IT IT BUT
YEAH WITHOUT THAT INFORMATION
IT'S IT'S BASED ON ASSUMPTIONS
AND BASED UPON ONE ON IT.
YEAH OK AND THEN OK
OK AND
THERE IS A STANDARD NUMBER ONE
PROPERTY WILL BE USED AS IT WAS
HISTORICALLY OR BE GIVEN A NEW
USE THAT REQUIRES MINIMAL
CHANGE.
I MEAN THAT'S THAT'S AN
INTERESTING STANDARD IN THIS
CASE.
YOU KNOW IT'S IT'S A IT'S THAT
COMES UP AGAINST REALITY WHERE
IT'S LIKE WELL THE OWNER WANTS
TO DO THIS THING BUT IT'S JUST
IT'S IT'S IT REALLY TALKS TO
LIKE THE CONCEPT, YOU KNOW,
OF A PROJECT NOT TO LIKE MORE
LIKE INDIVIDUAL INTERVENTIONS
THAT THE APPLICANT IS WANTING
TO DO BUT IT'S I THINK SAYING
THAT LIKE IT'S THE BUILDING YOU
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING IS IS
SET FOR A CERTAIN USE AND IF
YOU WANT TO CHANGE AND USE WHAT
YOU SHOULD DO IS GIVE A NEW USE
THAT REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE.
SO THAT IS THAT'S OBVIOUSLY NOT
WHAT IS BEING PROPOSED HERE.
SO AGAIN, THAT STANDARD TO ME
IS NOT BEING THAT.
AND THEN LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
SO FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR'S GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS.
THERE'S ALTERATIONS ADDITIONS
FOR A NEW USE AND WHAT'S
RECOMMENDED IS DESIGNING
ADDITIONS TO ROOFS SUCH AS
OFFICES OR RESIDENTIAL WHEN
REQUIRED BY THE NEW USE SO THAT
THEY ARE INCONSPICUOUS WITH
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY.
AND SO I THINK WHAT WE'RE
HEARING IS THAT IS IN AGREEMENT
WITH THAT SUPPLEMENTAL
INFORMATION THAT WE'RE GETTING
THAT SAYS ROOFTOP ADDITIONS
BASICALLY SHOULD BE INVISIBLE
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY.
AND THEN THIS IS ALSO BASICALLY
SAYING FROM THIS MORE OR LESS
THE SAME THING.
I MEAN INCONSPICUOUS IS IS
DIFFERENT THAN INVISIBLE BUT
YEAH.
OK, IF YOU COULD SEE A LITTLE
SOMETHING THAT'S OK BUT
ANYTHING MORE THAN THAT IS
GOING TO DESTROY THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER AND THAT JUST SAYS
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY.
SO TO ME THAT IS MAIN STREET
AND THAT IS THAT'S LIBERTY AND
I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW IF THAT'S
THE ALLEY OR NOT.
I WOULD ASSUME THAT IT IS BUT
IT SEEMS THAT THAT REALLY MAKES
THINGS TRICKY IF I MEAN IT AS A
PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY THE ALLEY SO
I MEAN IT'S SECONDARY I GUESS
BUT IT'S STILL IT'S STILL IT'S
STILL APPLIES.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
OK,
OK, JUST MAYBE JUST TO
REITERATE SOME OF THESE NOT
RECOMMENDED ITEMS FROM THE FROM
THE GUIDELINES THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES SO
HONORED FOR ADDITIONS NOT
RECOMMENDED DESIGNING A NEW
EDITION SO THAT ITS SIZE AND
SCALE IN RELATION TO THE
HISTORIC BUILDING ARE OUT
OF PROPORTION THUS DIMINISHING
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER I THINK
WE TALKED QUITE A BIT ABOUT
ABOUT THAT AND THEN ALSO UNDER
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING NOT RECOMMENDED
INTRODUCING NEW CONSTRUCTION
INTO HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT
DESTROYS HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
WITHIN THE SETTING.
SO AGAIN TALKING ABOUT AGAIN
THIS BEING A MID BLOCK BUILDING
AMONG ALL OTHER THREE STOREY
BUILDINGS HIGHLY VISIBLE.
THAT'S THE SETTING SO KIND
OF GOING DOWN THE LIST.
YES, A OUT OF YEAH.
YES.
AGREED
.
OK, ARE THERE MORE COMMENTS?
OK, SO DO IT.
THE OWNER WANTS TO MAKE IT OR
THE AFGHAN WANTS TO MAKE IT DO
IT YOU CAN YOU CAN YOU CAN LET
THEM OK YEAH SO SO LET'S LET'S
HERE I MEAN YOU HAD YOUR CHANCE
BUT BUT NOW WE'VE BEEN TALKING
A LOT MAYBE THERE'S THERE'S
MORE TO DISCUSS BUT JUST DON'T
REPEAT YOURSELF PLEASE JUST
TELL US NEW INFORMATION FROM
FROM WHAT YOU'VE HEARD IN ONE
OF THE STANDARDS THIS STRUCTURE
CANNOT BE THERE NEEDS TO BE
REMOVED AND IT'S ACTUALLY
WRITTEN ON THE HISTORIC WEBSITE
AND ORIGINALLY THE INTENTION
WAS TO KEEP THE WALL
STRUCTURALLY IT'S NOT POSSIBLE
AND OUR STRUCTURAL ENGINEER
INSPECTED THE WHOLE BUILDING
AND IT'S NOT POSSIBLE TO SAVE
THAT BACK ONE.
SO IT'S IT'S VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
IT'S READ IT HAS HAPPENED IN
AND OVER IN MANY, MANY
LOCATIONS AND I'VE SEEN IT
MYSELF.
SO I'M NOT SURE WHAT THE
PROBLEM IS WITH REMOVING
STRUCTURE.
THIS CAN BE SAFE AND IT'S YOU
SAW THE DETERIORATION ON THE
WALL AND IT CAN BE SAFE AND
IT'S IT'S STATED ON HISTORIC
STANDARD STRUCTURE THAT CANNOT
BE SAFE.
IT CAN BE REMOVED.
THAT'S A CONCRETE LEAVING.
MY NAME IS STEPAN TRENGOVE.
THIRTY ONE TWENTY ONE MORE ROAD
GEORGIAN VITALITY AND WOUND UP
LIVING IMPROVE THE VITALITY
OF EUROPE BACK TO THE CITY.
IT IS A NEW TREND.
IT IS FLAWED.
I'VE BEEN INVOLVED FIFTY YEARS
TO THE COUNTRY WATERFRONT.
DON'T DON'T YOU BRING THE
VITALITY BACK.
IT'S THE ENERGY OF EUROPE
THAT'S COMING TO TOWN.
THE ADDITIONAL TWO STORY IS IS
THE PEOPLE THAT ARE GOING TO
ENHANCE IN ARE ABLE TO INTERACT
WITH THE DOWNTOWN WILL BE
MOVING TO THOSE AREAS.
I REALIZE IT'S AN HISTORICAL
ONE.
WE WERE TRYING TO GET TO THE
ALL OF THE ARTIFACTS BACK INTO
THE UPSTAIRS SOMEWHERE SOMEWHAT
DIFFICULT BECAUSE THE BUILDING
HAS BEEN RESTORED THREE TIMES
ALREADY.
SO DO THE HISTORY OF THE
BUILDING IS SORT HAVE BEEN
WASHED AWAY SO WHAT THE PEOPLE
WANT WHEN PEOPLE COME TO ME AND
WANT TO MAKE AN OPERA BETTER
PLACE THEY WANT RESTAURANTS,
THEY WANT RETAIL THE KIND
OF STUDENTS WE'RE ATTRACTING
UPPER MIDDLE CLASS AND IT'S
JUST A WAY THE UNIVERSITY IS
HISPANO OUT.
I THINK THIS WOULD BE AN
ADDITION AND THE TRACK RECORD
OF MR RAHMATI IN THE BUILDING
THAT HE'S DONE ARE VERY
SENSITIVE AND WE WELCOME ANY
INTERPRETATION OF THE
ARCHITECTURE.
I FEEL THAT THIS COULD BE AN
ASSET TO OUR CITY.
THANK YOU.
SO I'D LIKE TO TOUCH ON JUST A
FEW KIND OF CODE SAFETY ISSUES.
I MEAN THE ORIGINAL INTENT
OF THE BUILDING A BLOCK MASONRY
FIREWALL'S ON THE PROPERTY
LINES, THE MIDDLE'S WOOD
STRUCTURE.
IT WAS INTENDED THAT WHEN A
FIRE HAPPENS THE INTERIOR THE
STRUCTURE WE COULD BASICALLY
BURN OUT AND MAINTAIN THE
SAFETY OF THE ADJACENT
STRUCTURES.
WE SURE WE CAN JUST REPLACE THE
JOINT I ONCE THE BARON HAPPENS,
EVERYTHING IN THE BUILDING
BASICALLY SHOULD BE JUST TAKEN
OUT AND REBUILT.
SO IF WE WANT TO MAINTAIN THE
SAME STRUCTURE, SURE WE COULD
BECAUSE WE'RE TRYING TO CHANGE
THE MARKET.
WE CAN'T IF YOU NEED TO USE
AGAIN LIKE A MASONIC TEMPLE WE
CAN'T GO ANY HIGHER THAN THE
THIRD FOR AT ALL.
WE COULD JUST REBUILD BUT
THERE'S NO MARKET FOR THAT TYPE
OF STRUCTURE.
WE COULD GO TO BUSINESS BUT WE
STILL CANNOT BUILD ANY ANY
BIGGER SQUARE FOOTAGE.
SO IT REALLY IS NOT VIABLE FOR
THAT.
WE STILL HAVE TO PUT STAIRS IN
ELEVATORS AND WE'RE NOT GETTING
LESS BANG FOR THE SO TO DO
RESIDENTIAL WE CAN BUILD THIS
THING OUT OF THE WOOD TO GET
OVER ANY HIGHER THAN THE THREE
FEET IN TYPE THREE
CONSTRUCTION.
SO THAT'S WHY YOU HAVE TO GO TO
STEEL AND THEN WITH THAT WE GOT
THE FIRE ON THE SIDE.
I THINK THE DETAIL OF THE FLOOR
ALSO IF WE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
TRYING TO DISTINGUISH THE SIDE,
WE COULD INSET THOSE WALLS LIKE
EIGHT INCHES LET'S SAY JUST TO
DISTINGUISH THE OLD TO THE NEW
CMU.
THERE'S SOME STRUCTURAL ISSUES
TO DEAL WITH BUT WE COULD
PROBABLY SOMEHOW OFFSET THE NEW
WALLS SO THAT THEY ARE OFFSET
FROM THE OLD TO DISTINGUISH
WHERE THE OLD STRUCTURE USED TO
BE AND THE NEW STARTED.
SO THAT'S ONE WAY WE COULD TRY
TO PUSH THIS THING DOWN A
LITTLE BIT IN THE HIDING TRYING
TO HIDE THAT FIRST FLOOR WE'RE
TRYING TO BATTLE HEITZ TO GET
ENOUGH RESIDENTIAL UNITS WE
JUST CAN'T GET THE OFFICE SPACE
IN AND WE'RE TRYING TO PUSH
BACK WHAT WE CAN AND I THINK ON
THE LEFT SIDE HERE THERE'S THE
SKYSCRAPERS.
SO YOU SEE YOU SURE YOU GOT THE
THREE CIRCLES THEN YOU'VE GOT
THE SKYSCRAPER IN THE END WE'RE
NOT WHERE GOING A COUPLE
STORIES.
I MEAN WE'RE KEEPING THIS WHOLE
THING THREE FOOT ABOVE.
THEY HAVE TO CHANGE.
THE STRUCTURE HAS TO CHANGE
THEN TO PROTECT THE VARIABLES
IN EACH SIDE ALMOST STICK WITH
WOODEN STRUCTURE THAT BURN IS
INTENDED TO BURN DOWN
EVENTUALLY AT SOME POINT IT'S
FURNIVAL'S BUILDINGS TO GO UP.
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO CHANGE
THE STRUCTURE ITSELF TO STEEL.
SO JUST MASONRY AND WOOD FLOORS
IS NOT GOING TO WORK IN THE
FUTURE.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OK, ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS BASED ON THAT OR OK OK
WELL LET'S LET'S MOVE TO A VOTE
SINCE THERE'S NO FURTHER
DISCUSSION SO ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO, NO NO.
OK, THE MOTION DOES NOT CARRY
YOUR APPLICATION BEEN DENIED.
PLEASE CONTACT CITY STAFF FOR
FUTURE PROCESS AND
OK WE WILL
MOVE ON NOW
IT'S GOING TO BE TO
AND IT'S SEVEN TWENTY ONE EAST
HURON MISS THATCHER PLEASE GIVE
THE STAFF REPORT OK I'LL BE
RIGHT
WITH YOU.
SORRY TAKE YOUR TIME.
THERE WE GO AT SEVEN TWENTY ONE
EACH ON IS A TWO STORY
STRUCTURE THAT WAS
REHABILITATED BY HOBBS BACK IN
THE NINETEEN EIGHTIES AS PART
OF A LARGER PUDI MADE UP
OF SEVERAL BUILDINGS AROUND
THIS CORNER ACTUALLY ALL THE
WAY TO STATE STREET.
PRIOR TO THAT THE STRUCTURE WAS
A SIMPLE TWO STOREY VERNACULAR
QUEEN AND HOME WITH A THREE
QUARTER LENGTH FRONT PORCH AND
MULTIPLE PANED UPPER SASH
WINDOWS FIRST APPEARED IN THE
NINETEEN OH TWO CITY DIRECTORY
IS THE HOME OF WILLIAM F WENZKE
AND MARY WOULD BERTY BY
NINETEEN FIFTEEN THE BUILDING
WAS HOME TO MCKENSIE CASH
GROCERY OTHER GROCERIES
OCCUPIED THE BUILDING THROUGH
THE YEARS AND IN NINETEEN
SEVENTY FIVE SURVEY PHOTO SHOWS
SEVEN TWENTY ONE EAST HURON AS
THE CORNER COVERED ONE STOREY
GARAGE AND LARGER REAR EDITION
ARE NOT PRESENT ON NINETEEN
FORTY SEVEN AERIAL PHOTOS BUT
APPEAR BY NINETEEN SIXTY.
A SECOND FLOOR APPEARS TO HAVE
BEEN ADDED TO THESE TWO
ADDITIONS AND EXTENDED FORWARD
IN THE NINETEEN EIGHTIES IN
TWENTY TWO AN APPLICATION TO
DEMOLISH THE HOUSE WAS DENIED
BY THE DC AS REPEAL'S TO THE
STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION
REVIEW BOARD AND FEDERAL COURT
AND THE SITE IS LOCATED AT THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF EAST HURON
AND NORTHANGER STREET.
THE THE BUILDING IS THE HOME
OF CANTERBURY HOUSE AND IT HAS
BEEN FOR QUITE A LONG TIME
WHICH IS A CAMPUS MINISTRY.
THEY DO EXTREMELY AWESOME
MUSICAL PRODUCTIONS THERE, YOU
KNOW SHOWS AND THERE'S A LOT
OF HISTORY ON THEM IF YOU EVER
WANT TO DO A GOOGLE SEARCH AND
YOU WILL LEARN FASCINATING
THINGS ABOUT CANTERBURY HOUSE,
IT'S DIFFERENT LOCATIONS
OF DIFFERENT THINGS IT'S DONE.
IT'S A IT'S A VERY COOL
ORGANIZATION RUNNING THROUGH
THE PHOTOS.
THESE ARE FROM THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE HOUSES AT THE CORNER
OF EAST HURON AND NORTH THERE
THERE'S A PARKING LOT NEXT DOOR
.
IT IS UNIQUE THAT IT'S PART
OF A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
OF SEVERAL BUILDINGS INCLUDING
THE CHURCH THAT HOBS AND BLACKS
STILL OCCUPIES.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S A LOW
PICKET FENCE AROUND THE FRONT,
LOTS OF IVY AND HEDGES IN FRONT
OF THE WINDOWS AND A COUPLE
OF SMALL ORNAMENTAL TREES IN
THE FRONT YARD.
THERE'S ALSO THERE'S ALSO A
DECK THAT'S AN ENTRY.
THERE'S AN ENTRY DOOR RIGHT
HERE.
THAT'S THE MAIN ENTRY I THINK
YOU CAN ALSO GET IN THIS ONE.
THERE ARE STAIRS GOING UP TO
THE DECK ON A SIDE, THE DECKS
IN POOR CONDITION AND I HAVE
ALREADY SIGNED OFF ON A STAFF
APPROVAL TO REPLACE IT WITH A
SMALLER ENTRY LANDING WITHOUT A
GUARDRAIL THAT'LL MAKE IT LOOK
A LOT MORE LOW KEY.
SO THE PROPOSAL HERE OOPS.
HERE'S THE BUILDING HERE'S THE
BUILDING NEXT DOOR.
THIS IS PART OF THAT UNIT
DEVELOPMENT.
IT'S TWO HOUSES THAT HAVE BEEN
LINKED TOGETHER TO FORM ONE
LARGISH OFFICE BUILDING HAS A
LINE IN THE FRONT.
YOU KNOW IT HAS MORE OF THE
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE ORIGINAL
HISTORIC HOMESTEAD THOUGH IT
HAS SIMILARLY LARGE ADDITIONS
ON THE BACK AND IS CONNECTED TO
THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR AND THIS IS
LOOKING THE OTHER WAY ACROSS
NORTH THERE.
JUST TO GIVE YOU AN IDEA OF THE
CONTEXT THAT'S A STUDENT RENTAL
SO THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE
BUILDING.
WE HAVE THIS AREA HERE.
THE GROUND COVER WOULD ALL BE
REMOVED AND THE EXISTING PICKET
FENCE WOULD BE DEMOLISHED.
THAT PICKET FENCE I'M TOLD HAS
MAJOR REPAIR CHALLENGES AND ITS
TIME HAS COME THE DECK AND
STEPS WOULD BE DEMOLISHED AND
REPLACED WITH A SMALLER DECK.
THAT'S WHAT I'VE ALREADY
STAFFED STAFF APPROVED SINCE IT
JUST HAS THESE THREE HANDRAILS
GOING.
IT DOESN'T NEED THE BIG
GUARDRAILS GOING ALL THE WAY
AROUND SINCE IT'S ALL STAIRS IN
FRONT WHICH IS WHICH IS VERY
APPROPRIATE.
THERE IS A BLUESTONE PATIO
PROPOSED ON THIS CORNER.
IT HAS A LITTLE PLANTING BED
HERE TO KIND OF BUFFER IT FROM
JUST BEING ONE ALONG EXPANSE
HERE RIGHT UP TO THE CITY
SIDEWALK AND THEN THERE'S A LOW
STONE WALL 16 INCHES WITH A
STONE CAP THAT'S A SEATING WALL
THAT WOULD THAT WOULD TURN THE
CORNERS AND BASICALLY GIVE
CANTERBURY HOUSE A PLACE TO TO
GATHER OUTDOORS IN FRONT OF THE
HOUSE THERE IS NO REAR YARD IN
THIS HOUSE.
IT'S PRETTY MUCH BUILT NEARLY
TO THE BACK AND THE BACK
PROPERTY LINE.
SO WE'VE GOT NEW LAWN, WE'VE
GOT NEW BLUESTONE PAVERS AND
THEN THERE'S ABOUT A FOOT HERE
IN FRONT WHERE THEY COULD PLANT
SOME SMALL PLANTS TO SORT
OF SOFTEN THE APPEARANCE OF A
STONE WALL.
DECKING AND STAIRS WOULD BE PVC
.
THAT'S WHAT THEY ARE NOW THE
PROPOSED SITE WHILE YOU CAN SEE
IS THE STACKED STONE WITH A
STONE CAP BLUESTONE PATIO.
THERE'S AN EXAMPLE THERE'S A
PROPOSED SITE PERSPECTIVE
HERE.
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THERE IS NO
BACKYARD AND THERE IS NO SIDE
YARD.
THE ONLY OUTDOOR SPACE THEY
HAVE TO WORK WITH IS UP HERE ON
THE FRONT CORNER.
SO THERE'S THE PICKET FENCE
CONSTANTLY DAMAGED IN NEED
OF REPAIR AND PHOTOS OF THE
EXISTING FRONT WALK.
I THINK THE FRONT WALK WILL
JUST BE COMPLETELY REMOVED AND
BE GRASS RIGHT UP TO THE PATIO
.
THESE ARE EXISTING CONDITIONS
THAT WERE PROVIDED IN THE
PACKET.
JUST TO GIVE YOU A LITTLE MORE
PERSPECTIVE FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS, I HAVE
READ TO ONE AND TWO AND NINE
AND TEN ALREADY FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING
ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION IN
THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT'S
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR
DESTROYS HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
WITHIN THE SETTING.
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES MENTION ABOUT
RESIDENTIAL DECKS AND PATIOS IT
SAYS TO BE CONSIDERED BACK OR
PATIO IT MUST BE LOCATED IN THE
REAR.
YOU ARE OR ARE NOT USED YARD
UNLESS SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
EXIST IN STAFF'S OPINION.
THERE ARE SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
HERE.
ONE IS THAT THE HOUSE IS A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE BASED ON
ITS ITS FORM AND MASS BUT IT
HAS HAD SOME PRETTY MAJOR
ALTERATIONS TO IT AND IT'S
SERVED AS A DIFFERENT USE THAN
A RESIDENTIAL HOME FOR FOUR
DECADES AND IF YOU THINK ABOUT
WHERE YOU SEE WELL NOW I'M
BLEEDING INTO WALLS BUT IF YOU
IF YOU THINK ABOUT WHERE YOU
SEE WALLS STONE WALLS IN ANN
ARBOR ESPECIALLY IN THE OLD
FOURTH WARD, IT'S PRETTY MUCH
IN CHURCHES AND WELL THAT'S NOT
THIS PROPERTY'S HISTORIC USE.
I THINK IT'S WORTH CONSIDERING
PUTTING STONEWALL IN FOR
SEATING FOR OUTDOOR USE AS A
PRACTICAL MATTER BUT ALSO
BECAUSE THIS IS A DIFFERENT USE
AND I THINK THAT SHOULD BE
TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION.
IT'S ALSO REVERSIBLE.
IT IS APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL A
PATIO FLUSH WITH GRAYED USING
STONE BRICK PAVERS OR CONCRETE
CUSTOM MATERIALS TO BE
CONSIDERED ON A CASE BY CASE
BASIS AND IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE
TO DESIGN NEW FEATURES THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE DISTRICT
AND NEIGHBORHOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
LET ME CHECK MY COMMENTS HERE
.
YEAH, THAT'S ABOUT IT.
I REALLY WE TALKED ABOUT THIS A
LITTLE BIT AT THE LAST MEETING
JUST AS A SORT OF A TINY
WORKING SESSION AND STANDING
THERE ON BUSY HURON STREET
CONSIDERING THE USE OF THE
HISTORIC BUILDING STAFF DOES
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THIS
APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
MISS THATCHER COMMISSIONERS
ROSS AND MYSELF WERE ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
IF YOU WANT TO GIVE YOU A
REPORT.
YES.
WHEN I THINK STAFF REALLY DOES
A GOOD JOB IN KIND
OF DESCRIBING WHAT'S GOING ON,
I THINK WE'RE ALL FAMILIAR WITH
THE SITE AND THE SURROUNDS AND
UNDERSTANDING AT THE CURRENTLY
THE CONTEXT IS NOT RESIDENTIAL.
I MEAN THAT WHATEVER ORIGINALLY
THE THE CHARACTER OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WAS IS COMPLETELY
GONE NOW AND THEN THE MATERIAL
THAT THE THE APPLICANT IS
PROPOSING TO REMOVE IS NOT A
STOCKAGE AND WHAT THEY'RE
PROPOSING TO INSTALL I THINK IS
VERY RESTRAINED AND I THINK IT
I THINK IT MEETS THE STANDARDS.
THANK YOU.
SO I AGREE WITH WHAT'S BEEN
SAID.
I JUST NOTED THAT IN THE STAFF
REPORT IT WAS ORIGINALLY BUILT
AS A HOUSE AND SOMEONE LIVED
THERE BUT THEN MERELY THIRTEEN
YEARS LATER IT HAD ALREADY
BECOME A STORE OR WHATEVER IT
WAS ORIGINALLY.
YEAH.
SO FOR YOU KNOW BY FAR THE MOST
OF OF THIS THE EXISTENCE
OF THIS STRUCTURE AND EVEN
WITHIN THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE BECAUSE THAT
WAS LIKE 1915 OR SOMETHING YOU
KNOW THIS THIS HAS BEEN
NONRESIDENTIAL SO THAT'S WHERE
THESE SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES I
GUESS COME IN AND IT YOU KNOW,
THIS DOES NOT FEEL LIKE A
RESIDENT SHOW SEATING AREA AND
PATIO IN THE FRONT THERE.
BUT IT SEEMS OK BECAUSE OF THE
SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
.
OK, SO WITH THE APPLICANT COME
FORWARD AND PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES AND
JUST IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD OR JUST ANY RESPONSE FROM
THE STAFF REPORT OF THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT I'D LOVE TO
HEAR MY NAME IS ERIC ROBERT
HURST.
MY ADDRESS IS ONE SEVEN ZERO
THREE THREE ROSEHILL ROAD
MICHIGAN AND I THINK STACHER
DID A GREAT JOB OF CONVEYING
WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO HERE.
YOU'VE GOT A LOT MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE BUILDING
THAN I HAD FOUND SO THAT WAS
INTERESTING TO HEAR ALL THAT.
OH, WE ALSO HAVE MATTHEW AND
MATTHEW.
DO YOU WANT TO UNMUTED AND
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AND
JUST SAY HI MATTHEW REVAN
LUKINS I'M OK.
I'M MATT WIGGINS.
I LIVE AT SIXTEEN ELEVEN SOUTH
STATE STREET APARTMENT SEVEN
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
I'M THE CHAPEL CANTERBURY HOUSE
AND NOTHING MORE TO ADD BUT
THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION AND I THINK MR
ABBOTT'S COMMENTS PRETTY MUCH
REFLECT MOST OF THE PROJECT TO
MY UNDERSTANDING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ANYTHING MORE THAT I KNOW?
I DON'T BELIEVE SO OTHER THAN
THE FACT THE STONE WALL I THINK
OTHER THAN SITTING BUT THE MAIN
PURPOSE IS JUST TO GIVE A
LITTLE PROTECTION TO THE
OUTDOOR SPACE AND LIKE WE
STATED ALL THE DAMAGE THAT HAD
DONE IN THE PAST TO THE PICKET
FENCE REPEATEDLY MATTHEW SAY IT
HOW HE WAS CONSTANTLY REPAIRING
THAT FENCE.
SO THIS HOPEFULLY WILL HELP AND
THAT AND THEN ALSO PROVIDE A
GREAT SPACE FOR THEM OWN SMALL
EVENTS FOR THE COMMUNITY FOR
THE CHURCH.
I HAVE A QUESTION.
DO EITHER OF YOU KNOW WHAT TYPE
OF STONE THE CAMP IS GOING TO
BE ON THE ON THAT BENCH THERE?
AFTER LISTENING TO YOUR
COMMENTS FROM LAST MONTH, WE
ACTUALLY KIND LOOKED AGAIN AND
THOUGHT THAT WE WOULD DO LIKE A
BLUE STONE CAP TO ACTUALLY
MATCH THE PAVERS OF THE PATIO
ITSELF AND KIND OF TIRED IT A
LITTLE MORE VERY GOOD.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
FOR THE APPLICANT?
OK, ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU BOTH.
OK, SO NOW I'D LIKE TO OPEN A
PUBLIC COMMENT FOR THIS PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION.
PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE MADE IN
PERSON OR BY CALLING IN USING
THE INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON
THE MEETING AGENDA AND THE
VIDEO FEED TO ELECTRONICALLY
RAISE YOUR HAND AFTER DIALING
INTO THE MEETING PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
SO DO WE HAVE ANYONE ON THE
LINE FOR SEVEN TWENTY ONE E ON
NO ONE WHO IS INDICATING OK NO
ONE PRESENT HERE EITHER SO I
WILL NOT CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION OF THE
APPLICATION.
WOULD ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION?
OK SURE.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT SEVEN TWENTY ONE
E HERE ON STREET CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO INSTALL
INSTALL A BLUESTONE PATIO AT
THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF THE
SITE A LOW MASONRY CEILING WALL
ALONG EAST SHARON AND PART
OF NORTH ER AND LANDSCAPING
BEDS AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT, TEXTURE MATERIAL
AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS.
ONE TO NINE AND TEN AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING AS WELL AS
THE ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY
AS THEY PERTAIN TO RESIDENTIAL
DECKS AND PATIOS.
ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION AND NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN HISTORIC
RESIDENTIAL SETTINGS SUPPORT
THANK YOU THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER KIYONO AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ROSS
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
JUST THAT I AGREE WITH STAFF
SUPPORT AND I APPRECIATE THE
COMMITTEE'S COMMENTS.
ALSO THE YOU KNOW, THE WORK
THAT'S PROPOSED IT CAN BE
REVERSED IF IF CHOSEN TO DO SO
AND IT WON'T HARM A HISTORIC
PROPERTY AND EVEN THOUGH YOU
KNOW IT'S NOT A PICKET FENCE
LIKE SOME OF THE OTHER
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES, THE
SCALE OF IT I THINK IS
APPROPRIATE TO THE RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO I WOULD SUPPORT THAT.
OK, ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
I AGREE.
YOU KNOW, IT'S INTERESTING
LOOKING AT THE PHOTO FROM
NINETEEN SEVENTY FIVE BECAUSE
AT FIRST I WAS KIND OF LIKE OH
IT'S GOING TO LOSE THAT ONE BUT
THERE'S A PHOTO OF THE PHOTO
SHOWS LITERALLY YOU KNOW
OBVIOUSLY AS A STORE IT'S
ESSENTIALLY ALL CONCRETE.
THERE IS NO LAWN AND SO LIKELY
YOU KNOW STAFF IS NOTING SINCE
OVER ONE HUNDRED YEARS THIS
BUILDING HAS BEEN USED AS A
COMMERCIAL USE THAT THIS IDEA
OF HAVING THE TRADITIONAL KIND
OF A FRONT YARD AND THE SIDE
YARD.
YEAH.
DOESN'T DOES IT SEEM AND IT IS
REVERSIBLE SO YEAH.
OK, IT'S A THOUGHTFUL PROPOSAL
.
GREAT.
OK THAT'S GOOD DISCUSSION.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I THINK NOW HEARING NO MORE
DISCUSSION WE WILL MOVE TO A
VOTE SO ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY YES
YES YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO.
SO THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION'S BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU NEED TO APPLY
FOR REQUIRED BUILDING PERMITS.
OBVIOUSLY FROM THE SITTING SO
THANK YOU.
OK, WE'VE GOT ONE MORE HEARING.
IT'S THREE TO GO TO S SEVENTH
BUT IT'S BEEN POSTPONED.
IT SAYS THAT CORRECT OR YES
THAT'S CORRECT.
WE WERE WAITING FOR SOME NEW
INFORMATION ON THAT ONE SO IT
HAS BEEN POSTPONED TO NEXT
MONTH'S AGENDA AND WELL I GUESS
ACTUALLY YOU GUYS NEED TO
POSTPONE IT TO NEXT MONTH'S
AGENDA AND WE NEED TO HOLD THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
YES, BECAUSE IT WAS ADVERTISED.
OK, SO LET'S DO THE PUBLIC
HEARING FIRST.
I WILL NOW OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR TWO TO S SEVENTH
STREET IS THERE'S NO ONE HERE.
I'M WONDERING IF THERE'S ANYONE
ON THE PHONE THEY SHOULD HIT
STAR NINE FOUR TWO OR TWO 7TH
OK, NOBODY THAT'S INDICATING I
WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR TWO OR TWO S SEVENTH STREET
AND NOW IS THERE A MOTION TO
POSTPONE THIS APPLICATION?
I DO.
I MOVE IT'S GOING TO I GUESS
LEAVE THAT THE COMMISSION
POSTPONED THE APPLICATION
NUMBER TWENTY THREE ONE ONE
EIGHT SIX FOR A READMISSION
PROPOSED FOR AT TWO OR TWO S
7TH STREET UNTIL THE REGULAR
AUGUST TWENTY TWENTY THREE
MEETING I OK THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER CALLAGHAN.
SHALL WE GO TO A VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES YES OK THAT CARRIES AND SO
NOW THE TWO TWO S 7TH IS
POSTPONED THAT IS THAT'S IT
THERE'S NO MORE HEARINGS SO
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO NEW
BUSINESS AND THERE'S NO NEW
BUSINESS AND SO THEN WE'LL GO
TO THE APPROVAL MINUTES.
BUT I DON'T THINK WE GOT
MINUTES DID THIS MORNING.
YEAH, JUNE OK MINUTES WERE NOT
SENT OUT.
THEY MUST STILL BE IN DRAFT
FORM SO WE'LL GET THOSE FOR
NEXT MONTH.
AND SO THE NEXT SECTION IS
REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS TO
ANY COMMISSIONERS.
HAVE ANY REPORTS NOT A FORMAL
BUT DO YOU HAVE AN INFORMAL
REPORT, COMMISSIONER?
JUST A COMMENT.
OK, I'LL MORE UNDER CONCERNING
MISSIONERS.
LET'S HEAR IT NOW I I WAS
RECENTLY WALKING PAST I FORGET
THE ADDRESS BUT THE PROPERTY ON
LIBERTY THAT WANTED TO INSTALL
THAT LARGE NEW CONCRETE
DRIVEWAY AND FROM FROM THE
RIGHT AWAY IT'S FINE IT WASN'T
SO GOOD AND THEY LEFT A LITTLE
BIT OF GREEN SPACE NEXT TO THE
HOUSE JUST LIKE THEY SAID THEY
WERE GOING.
I NOTICED I ALSO WALKED RIGHT.
I NOTICED THAT.
YEAH.
SO OK, WE BOTH CHECKED IT OUT.
WE'RE WATCHING OK, OK.
ANY OTHER REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS'?
I ALSO HAD A COMMENT AND I GOT
AN EMAIL FROM THE CITY THAT
THERE IS A BOARD AND COMMISSION
ORIENTATION CLASS ORIENTATION
VIDEO AND A PDF THAT WE SHOULD
ALL VIEW.
DID YOU DID EVERYONE GET IT?
I DIDN'T I DIDN'T GET THAT.
DID YOU WATCH IT?
OH, I KNOW YOU KNOW WHO YOU GOT
IT FROM.
I CAN TELL YOU RIGHT NOW IT WAS
JUST SORT OF LIKE YOUR
COMMISSION YOU SHOULD THIS IS
WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW, YOU KNOW,
KIND OF LIKE RIGHT.
>> WHY DON'T YOU FOR THAT TO ME
AND RESEND IT OUT TO THE WHOLE
COMMISSION FROM SARAH LAWRENCE
.
OK, SHE'S THE BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS COORDINATOR.
WELL THERE YOU GO.
I WILL I WILL SEND IT TO YOU.
OK, THANK YOU.
OK, THAT'S THAT CONCLUDES MY
REPORT.
ANY OTHER REPORTS THE TWO
REPORTS THIS WEEK.
OK
NOW WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON
TO ASSIGNMENTS AND I THINK THAT
THE THE IT'S NOT IT MUST BE A
DIFFERENT IT'S IT SHOULD BE
IRAQ.
WHAT YOU SAID MONDAY AUGUST 14
FOR THE THURSDAY AUGUST 17
REGULAR MEETING.
THIS IS THE SECOND MEETING FOR
THIS YEAR BECAUSE THERE'S
SOMETHING HAPPENING IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS AND WE CAN'T HAVE IT
FOR OUR USUAL MEETING DATE.
IT'S A LATER MEETING THAN USUAL
A WEEK OFF WHEN A THIRD
THURSDAY INSTEAD OF THE SECOND.
SO IT'S AUGUST 14TH.
THAT'S THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
YEP.
I CAN I CAN DO IT GETTING IN
ALL MY YEAH.
GET THEM IN YEAH.
YEAH YEAH THAT I HAD A COME I
COULDN'T REMEMBER WHO IT WAS
THAT YEAH YEAH BECAUSE MOVING
FORWARD FIVE O'CLOCK WILL BE
TRICKY FOR ME.
OK SO YOU'LL DO THE NEW THING
NOON I THINK KNOW THE
NEWS ASSUMING DAY CARE WORKS.
YEAH.
OH GOOD OK SO YOU'RE SO WE CAN
WINTER OK SO OK SO I SHOULDN'T
BE RIGHT THEN ARE YOU
INTERESTED IN BEING ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE I LATE YOU
SAID FIVE OR KNEW WHAT TIME
IT'S GOING TO BE FIVE O'CLOCK
ON THE 14TH OF AUGUST THAT
MONDAY.
YES I CAN DO THAT.
GREAT OK THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR THAT.
I'LL EXPLAIN TO YOU HOW THAT
HOW THAT WORKS.
YEAH I OK I'M ALL THANK YOU
BOTH FOR VOLUNTEERING AND NOW
LET'S MOVE ON TO REPORTS FROM
STAFF.
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT I HAVE
ANYTHING NEW TO REPORT.
OK HOW THE STAFF APPROVALS BEEN
LAST MONTH AIRCONDITIONERS,
HEAT PUMPS, SOLAR PANELS WHAT'S
GOING ON THESE DAYS.
A LITTLE OF THAT LITTLE OF THIS
LAW THAT ALL OK NOTHING LIKE
IT'S GOTTEN SO NOW IT'S BUSY
BECAUSE SUMMER BUT IT'S A LOT
OF LITTLE STUFF.
THERE'S THERE ARE THERE ARE ONE
OR TWO COMING IN WHERE I'VE
ASKED THEM TO GIVE ME A
COMPLETE SET OF PLANS THAT I
COULD SHARE THEM WITH THE
OFFICERS TO SEE IF I COULD
STAFF APPROVE THEM.
I DO THAT SOMETIMES WHEN I'M
WHEN IT'S THINGS THAT AREN'T
TECHNICALLY ON THE STAFF
APPROVAL LIST BUT I CAN'T
REALLY POSSIBLY BIG ENOUGH TO
WARRANT, YOU KNOW, COMING TO A
FULL MEETING.
SO ONCE MY I SEND UP SEE WHAT
YOUR OPINIONS ARE.
SO WHAT'S YOUR INBOX ALL RIGHTS
CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS.
OK, HEARING NONE.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO COMMUNICATIONS
WHICH WE DON'T HAVE ANY.
SO I KNOW ADJOURN THE JULY 13TH
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEETING
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
THANK YOU ALL